  ********************************************************    
                         NOTICE
********************************************************

This document was converted from
WordPerfect or Word to ASCII Text format.

Content from the original version of the document such as
headers, footers, footnotes, endnotes, graphics, and page numbers
will not show up in this text version.

All text attributes such as bold, italic, underlining, etc. from the
original document will not show up in this text version.

Features of the original document layout such as
columns, tables, line and letter spacing, pagination, and margins
will not be preserved in the text version.

If you need the complete document, download the
WordPerfect version or Adobe Acrobat version, if available.

*****************************************************************
Before the
               Federal Communications Commission
                     Washington, D.C. 20554



In the Matter of

Australia-Japan Cable (Guam) Limited

Application  for License to Land and Operate in the
United States a Private Submarine Fiber Optic
Cable Extending Between Australia, Guam, and
Japan


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)



SCL-LIC-20000629-00025



                     CABLE LANDING LICENSE

   Adopted:  December 7, 2000           Released: December 8, 2000

By the Associate Chief, Telecommunications Division:


                      I.Introduction
1.   In this Order, we grant the application of Australia-Japan Cable (Guam) Limited ("AJC
Guam"), pursuant to the Cable Landing License Act and Executive Order No. 10530, for authority to
land and operate a private fiber optic submarine cable system to be called the "Australia-Japan Cable," or
"AJC," extending between Australia, Guam and Japan.  AJC Guam proposes to operate AJC on a non-
common carrier basis.  We find that AJC Guam has provided sufficient information under our rules to
comply with the Cable Landing License Act, and that it would serve the public interest to grant the cable
landing license subject to the conditions set out below.
                      II.Application
2.   According to the AJC Application, AJC Guam, which will own and control the portion
of AJC located in U.S. territorial waters, is a company organized and existing under the laws of
Bermuda.  AJC Guam is wholly owned by Australia-Japan Cable Limited ("AJC Ltd."), which in turn is
wholly owned by Australia-Japan Cable Holding ("AJCH"), both Bermuda companies.  AJCH, AJC
Ltd., and AJC Guam are 39.9 percent indirectly owned by Telstra Corporation Limited ("Telstra"), the
Australian incumbent telecommunications carrier providing local and long distance, including
international, services in Australia.  Telstra, in turn, is 50.01 percent owned by the Australian
Government.  Additional owners of AJCH, AJC Ltd., and AJC Guam are:  Concert Global Networks
Services Limited, a Bermuda corporation ultimately owned 50 percent by AT&T Corporation and 50
percent by British Telecom PLC, both publicly traded communications companies (10.1 percent); Japan
Telecom Co., Ltd., a publicly traded Japanese corporation engaged in communications (10 percent); MCI
WorldCom Global Network Services Limited, a Bermuda corporation ultimately owned by MCI
Worldcom Inc., a publicly traded communications company (15 percent); NTT Communications
Corporation, a Japanese corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone
Corporation, a Japanese corporation engaged in communications that is 46.7 percent owned by the
Japanese Government (10 percent); and Teleglobe Inc., a publicly traded Canadian corporation engaged
in communications (15 percent). 
3.   AJC Guam's immediate parent, AJC Ltd., also wholly owns:  (1) Australia-Japan Cable
(Australia) Limited ("AJC Australia"), the entity that will own and control the portion of the cable
located in Australian territorial waters; (2) Australia-Japan Cable (Japan) Limited ("AJC Japan"), the
entity that will own and control the portion of the cable located in Japanese territorial waters; and (3)
Australia-Japan Cable (Management) Limited ("AJC Management"), a Bermuda corporation that will
manage the cable pursuant to a contractual arrangement between the owners of the cable and AJC
Management.  AJC Ltd. itself will own and control the portions of the cable located in international
waters.
4.   AJC will connect Australia, Guam, and Japan, with two separate landing points in each
location.  AJC will be configured as a two-fiber pair "collapsed ring" network, with a single backbone in
deep water between Australia and Japan and double branch landings to terminals in Australia, Guam, and
Japan.  The total distance of the cable will be approximately 12,000 kilometers.  In addition, AJC will
use terrestrial transmission links between the in-country terminals (and optionally a submarine link for
Japan) to close the collapsed ring.  A map of AJC is attached as Exhibit A.  AJC will provide
synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH) transmission facilities over optical fiber pairs operated at a nominal
wavelength of about 1.5 micrometers and using optical amplification.  Each fiber pair will be capable of
carrying 32 separate wavelengths in each direction, each modulated to STM-64 level, although the initial
equipment provisioning will be linked to that required to support four such separate wavelengths in each
direction per fiber pair.  Thus, the total design capacity, based on current technology, will be 320 Gbps
per fiber pair, initially equipped to 40 Gbps per fiber pair.
5.   According to the AJC Application, AJC capacity will be available on three paths: 
Australia-Japan; Australia-Guam; and Guam-Japan.  Applicants state that capacity purchasers will be
able to interconnect with several other planned and existing cables in Australia, Guam, and Japan, that
future use of AJC may comprise other than SDH traffic, such as Internet Protocol traffic through high
speed routers, and that AJC will be capable of supporting such alternative use of each wavelength
through the provision of suitable transmission equipment.  Applicants also state that it will be possible to
expand the capacity of AJC, either to carry Internet Protocol traffic or to provide transport of additional
SDH traffic.  AJC's owners plan to place the cable into commercial service by June 30, 2001.
6.   According to Applicants, the AJC Ltd. subsidiaries that will own and control the portions
of AJC located in territorial waters will obtain Indefeasible Rights of Use ("IRUs") in cable landing
stations owned by landing parties other than AJC subsidiaries.  AJC Guam will receive an IRU from
Concert Global Network USA LLC, a Delaware corporation that owns 100 percent of the existing
Tanguisson, Guam and Tumon Bay, Guam landing stations.  In Japan, AJC Japan will receive an IRU
from NTT Communications Corporation, the 100 percent owner of the Shima, Japan cable landing
station and an IRU from Japan Telecom Co., Ltd., the 100 percent owner of the Maruyama, Japan cable
landing station.  In Australia, AJC Australia will receive an IRU from Telstra Corporation Limited, the
100 percent owner of the Oxford Falls, Australia and Paddington, Australia cable landing stations. 
Pursuant to the landing party agreements entered into by the AJC Ltd. subsidiaries with the four landing
parties, the landing parties are required to provide space and connection with the network at the cable
stations to alternative carriers on a nondiscriminatory basis for the provision of backhaul services
between the cable station and a central office or international gateway, either for the carriers' own
purposes or for purposes of resale to third parties.  Applicants state that in Guam, all backhaul services
will be provided by carriers unaffiliated with the owners of AJC and that in Australia and Japan, where
cable users also have the right to receive backhaul services from the landing parties, these services must
be provided on a nondiscriminatory basis to cable users.
                       III.Comments
7.   We placed the AJC Application on public notice on July 12, 2000.  We received no
comments on the application.  Pursuant to Section 1.767(b) of the Commission's rules, the Cable
Landing License Act, and Executive Order No. 10530, we informed the Department of State of the AJC
Application and the AJC Oct. 23 Letter.  The Department of State, after coordinating with the National
Telecommunications and Information Administration and the Department of Defense, stated that it has
no objection to the issuance of the cable landing license.
                       IV.Discussion
8.   Section 35 of the Cable Landing License Act provides that licenses may be granted upon
"such terms as shall be necessary to assure just and reasonable rates and service in the operation and use
of cables so licensed."  In the Foreign Participation Order, the Commission adopted a presumption in
favor of granting applications by applicants that are affiliated with carriers in destination markets that are
World Trade Organization (WTO) members.  The Commission observed that if a particular application
presents unusual risks to competition, the Commission can address most potential problems by imposing
conditions on the license.  Each of the countries in which the proposed cable would land where AJC
Guam has foreign carrier affiliations as described below is a WTO member.
9.   AJC Guam certifies that it is affiliated with foreign carriers, within the meaning of 47
C.F.R. Section 63.09(d) of the Commission's rules, in the destination countries of Australia and Japan. 
Specifically, AJC Guam states that it is affiliated with: Telstra, the incumbent provider of local and long
distance services in Australia; Telstra Japan KK, which holds a Type I telecommunications license in
Japan but has not yet obtained approval to offer services; and Telstra Singapore Pte Ltd. (Japan Branch),
which holds a Type II telecommunications license in Japan, allowing it to resell voice data and fax
services in Japan and to offer international telecommunications services.  In addition, AJC Guam
advises that AJC Australia, a wholly owned subsidiary of AJC Guam's parent AJC Ltd., will apply for a
Carrier License in Australia.  AJC Guam asserts that, although the Commission previously has found
that Telstra possesses market power in Australia, the Commission also has found that carriers have
effective competitive opportunities to provide international facilities-based services.
10.  Because the proposed cable's foreign affiliates are in countries that are WTO members,
there is a presumption in favor of granting AJC Guam's application to land and operate AJC in the
United States.  We find no reason, based on the record before us, to rebut this presumption.  However,
as we have discussed previously, where there is a risk of competitive harm to U.S. consumers and to
competitive providers, including telecommunications service providers and information service
providers, due to an applicant's affiliation with dominant foreign carriers and foreign cable landing
stations in foreign destinations, we have imposed certain conditions designed to address possible harms
to competition. 
11.  The Commission licenses submarine cables to be operated on either a common carrier or
non-common carrier basis, and requires a cable landing license applicant to indicate under which of
these two regulatory categories it seeks to operate.  AJC Guam proposes to operate AJC as a non-
common carrier submarine cable system in which capacity will not be offered indifferently to the user
public.
     12.  The Commission's private submarine cable policy is intended to promote competition in
the provision of international transmission facilities.  In determining whether a cable system qualifies to
be operated on a non-common carrier basis, the Commission uses the two-part test set forth by the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in NARUC I.  Pursuant to this policy, the
Commission has authorized non-common carrier cables where: 1) there is no legal compulsion to serve
the public indifferently; and 2) there are no reasons implicit in the nature of the operations of the
submarine cable system to expect an indifferent holding-out to the eligible user public.
13.  In applying the first prong of NARUC I to submarine cable authorizations, the
Commission has stated that there will be no legal compulsion to serve the public indifferently where
there is no public interest reason to require facilities to be offered on a common carrier basis.  This public
interest analysis generally has focused on whether an applicant will be able to exercise market power
because of the lack of alternative facilities, although the Commission has not limited itself to that
reasoning.  Where there are sufficient alternatives, the Commission has found that the licensee will lack
market power and will not be able to charge monopoly rates for cable capacity.  The Commission has
found that, in those circumstances, the public interest would be served by allowing a submarine cable to
be offered on a non-common carrier basis.    
14.  If the Commission finds that there is no public interest reason to require the submarine
cable facilities to be offered on a common carrier basis, then, under the second prong of the NARUC I
test, the Commission considers whether there is reason to expect an indifferent holding-out by the
applicant to the eligible user public.  If the Commission finds that an applicant has shown that it will
make individualized decisions whether and on what terms to provide service and will not undertake to
serve all customers indifferently, the Commission has held that the second prong of the test has been
met.
     15.  Notwithstanding a Commission decision not to require a submarine cable system to be
operated on a common carrier basis, the Commission retains the authority to impose common carrier or
common-carrier-like obligations on the operations of that cable system, if the public interest so requires. 
Furthermore, the Commission has always maintained the authority subsequently to classify facilities as
common carrier facilities subject to Title II of the Communications Act if the public interest requires that
the facilities be offered to the public indifferently.
16.  In this case, with respect to the second prong of the test, AJC Guam proposes to operate
AJC on a non-common carrier basis, offering bulk capacity to a specific class of eligible users, including
common carriers, on an original ownership, IRU, or lease of capacity basis.  AJC Guam will not hold out
to the public indifferently, but will make individualized decisions in particular cases whether and on what
terms to deal with prospective customers.  Based on these representations, we conclude that there is no
reason to expect an indifferent holding-out to the eligible user public.
17.  With respect to the first prong of the test, AJC Guam asserts that there are sufficient
existing and planned facilities on the route to constrain the ability of AJC Guam to exercise market
power.  AJC asserts that existing and planned common carrier and private cable systems offer
connectivity between Australia, Guam, and Japan, and that AJC is designed not only to provide capacity
between these points, but to be a link between cables providing transpacific capacity.  AJC Guam states
that these systems include the following cables extending to one or more of the countries other than the
United States in which AJC would land: (1) NPC (authorized on a non-common carrier basis to serve the
U.S. Mainland, Alaska, and Japan); (2) TPC-4 (authorized on a common carrier basis to serve the U.S.
Mainland, Canada, and Japan); (3) PacRimWest (authorized on a common carrier basis to serve
Australia and Guam); (4) PacRimEast (authorized on a common carrier basis to serve Hawaii and New
Zealand); (5) HAW-5 (authorized on a common carrier basis to serve the U.S. Mainland and Hawaii);
(6) TPC-5 (authorized on a common carrier basis to serve the U.S. Mainland, Hawaii, Guam, and
Japan); (7) Southern Cross (authorized on a common carrier basis to serve the U.S. Mainland, Hawaii,
Fiji, New Zealand, and Australia); (8) China-US (authorized on a non-common carrier basis to serve the
U.S. Mainland, China, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, and Guam); (9) Guam-Philippines (authorized on a
non-common carrier basis to serve Guam and the Philippines); (10) Oxygen USA (authorized on a non-
common carrier basis to serve the U.S. Mainland and various oversea points, including Australia, Guam,
and Japan); and (11) Japan-US ( authorized on a non-common carrier basis to serve the U.S. Mainland,
Japan, and Hawaii).
18.  We find that the public interest would be served by the provision of additional capacity
on the routes proposed to be served by AJC, particularly on the Guam-Australia route.  Currently, two
U.S. cables directly serve Australia: PacRimWest and Southern Cross.   Moreover, PacRimEast, a
common carrier cable that serves the U.S. Mainland, Hawaii, and New Zealand, indirectly serves
Australia via the Tasman-2 cable linking Australia and New Zealand.  
19.  In its recent Notice of Proposed Rulemaking addressing competition in the submarine
cable market, the Commission noted the importance of promoting the expansion of capacity and
facilities-based competition, which will result in innovation and lower prices for U.S. consumers of
international communications services.  At the same time, we are concerned about a possible risk of
competitive harm to U.S. consumers and competitive providers on the U.S.-Australia route due to AJC
Guam's affiliation with a dominant foreign carrier and foreign cable landing stations in the cable's
destination market of Australia.    
20.  With respect to Australia, the International Bureau has found AJC Guam's foreign
affiliate in Australia, Telstra, to have market power in the local exchange market in Australia, and thus
treats Telstra's wholly owned U.S. subsidiary, Telstra, Inc. (TI) as dominant on the U.S.-Australia
route.  In 1998, the International Bureau found that U.S. carriers have effective competitive
opportunities to provide international facilities-based service in Australia.  At the same time, however,
Telstra is the landing party for almost all submarine cables in Australia.  The Commission, in its Foreign
Participation Order, determined that the relevant markets on the foreign end of a U.S. international route
generally include: international transport facilities or services, including cable landing station access and
backhaul facilities; inter-city facilities or services; and local access facilities or services on the foreign
end.  Telstra, therefore, has market power in at least two of the three relevant markets -- cable landing
station access and local access facilities or services -- on the Australian end of the U.S.-Australia route.
We are concerned that AJC's foreign affiliate, Telstra, might favor AJC or affiliated telecommunications
or information service providers.   We recently addressed similar concerns about potential competitive
harm to U.S. consumers and service providers by attaching a limited set of conditions to a submarine
cable license for a network serving the United States and destination countries in South America.   
21.  In this instance, given that the AJC owners do not plan to commence commercial service
until sometime just prior to June 30, 2001 and given that Southern Cross, a new common carrier cable,
recently began service, we find that market forces and a limited number of additional conditions will
constrain the ability of AJC Guam and its foreign affiliates in Australia to engage in anticompetitive
practices.  Moreover, we note that the AJC landing party agreements between the landing parties
(including Telstra) and the IRU holders (including AJC Australia and AJC Guam) require the landing
parties to provide space and connection with the network at the cable stations to alternative carriers on a
nondiscriminatory basis for the provision of backhaul services between the cable station and a central
office or international gateway, either for the carriers' own purposes or for purposes of resale to third
parties.  Further, where the landing parties, such as Telstra, will provide backhaul services or
interconnection, they must provide them on a nondiscriminatory basis to cable users.  Finally, the
availability of regional submarine cable links (SEA-ME-WE-3, APCN and JASURAUS), that together
connect Australia, via Indonesia, to the Philippines, and the availability of Guam-Philippines,
connecting the Philippines to Guam, will help to create competition on the U.S.-Australia route.    
22.  The AJC Nov. 6 Letter indicates that AJC Guam and its affiliates in AJC are willing to
accept certain conditions to the authorization to land and operate AJC.  AJC and its affiliates have
accepted the following three conditions:
          (1)  AJC Guam states that it is willing to commit that it will neither (directly or indirectly)
          accept from nor offer to an affiliated dominant carrier or foreign landing station owned
          by an affiliated dominant carrier in Australia a "special concession" as that term is
          defined in Section 63.14(b) of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  63.14(b).
          (2)  AJC Guam agrees to provide the Commission with quarterly reports (within 90 days
          from the end of each calendar quarter) summarizing the provisioning and maintenance of
          all network facilities and services procured from AJC Guam's dominant affiliates and
          foreign cable landing stations owned by AJC Guam's dominant affiliates in Australia,
          including, but not limited to those services procured on behalf of customers or any joint
          venture in which AJC Guam or any dominant affiliates participate.  This report will
          contain the information required in Section 63.10(c)(4) of the Commission's rules, 47
          C.F.R.  63.10(c)(4).
          (3)  AJC states that it is the intent of AJC Guam and its affiliates to provide capacity users
          direct interface access to the cable network interface as well as the ability to collocate
          their own equipment on commercially reasonable and non-discriminatory terms at the
          cable stations in order to access the AJC network.  In order to clarify that intention, AJC
          Guam states that it is willing to agree to a condition that capacity users will (if requested
          by the user) be provided direct interface access to the cable network interface as well as
          the ability to collocate their own equipment on commercially reasonable and non-
          discriminatory terms at the cable stations in order to access the AJC network.
The conditions agreed to by AJC Guam and its affiliates, along with the conditions regularly attached to
the grant of non-common carrier cables, should serve to address our concerns that AJC's foreign affiliate,
Telstra, might favor AJC or affiliated telecommunications and information service providers.
23.  Based on the analysis above, we conclude that AJC Guam will not offer capacity in AJC to
the public on a common carrier basis, and that the public interest does not require that it do so. 
Accordingly, we conclude that it is appropriate to license AJC on a non-common carrier basis, but with
certain common-carrier-like conditions designed to detect and deter anticompetitive activity detrimental
to U.S. consumers.  We emphasize that our decision to grant this cable landing license to AJC Guam on a
non-common carrier basis is predicated in part upon the current and planned facility alternatives in the
region.  Because of these alternatives, carriers and users alike will have viable choices other than AJC
when seeking capacity.   If the public interest should require, we retain the authority to modify these
conditions and to classify these facilities as common carrier facilities subject to Title II of the
Communications Act.  We also find that AJC Guam will not provide a telecommunications service for a
fee to such class of users as to be "effectively available directly to the public" and thus will not be a
"telecommunications carrier" under the 1996 Act. 
              IV.Ownership And Landing Points
24.  AJC Guam has provided the ownership information required by Sections 1.767(a)(6) and
63.18 of the Commission's rules.  According to the AJC Application, AJC Guam is 39.99 percent
indirectly owned by Telstra, itself 50.01 percent owned by the Australian Government; 15 percent
indirectly owned by MCI Worldcom; 15 percent indirectly owned by Teleglobe Inc.; 10.01 percent
owned by Concert Global Network Services, a 50/50 joint venture of AT&T Corporation and British
Telecom PLC; 10 percent indirectly owned by Japan Telecom Co., Ltd.; and 10 percent indirectly owned
by NTT, itself 53 percent owned by the Japanese Government.  AJC Guam will hold an IRU in the
Tanguisson, Guam and Tumon Bay, Guam landing stations and will own and control the portion of AJC
located in U.S. territorial waters.  Wholly-owned subsidiaries of AJC Guam's direct parent, AJC Ltd.,
will hold IRUs in the Japan and Australia cable stations.  These subsidiaries will own the portions of AJC
located, respectivly, in Japanese and Australian territorial waters, while AJC Ltd. itself will own and
control the portions of the cable located in international waters.  AJC Guam states that it is affiliated, in
AJC's destination markets, with Telstra, Telstra Japan KK, and Telstra Singapore Pte Ltd.  
25.  AJC Guam states that AJC will land at:  Shima, Japan; Maruyama, Japan; Tanguisson,
Guam, U.S.A.; Tumon Bay, Guam, U.S.A.; Oxford Falls, Australia; and Paddington, Australia.  AJC
Guam has complied with Section 1.767(a) of the Commission's rules, which requires applicants to file a
specific description of any landing point, including a map.  AJC Guam has filed, with the AJC
Application, the specific description of each landing point, maps showing specific coordinates of each
landing station, and the identity, citizenship, and specific ownership share of each owner of each U.S.
landing station. These are attached as Exhibits B-E.  The license therefore is not subject to any further
public notice or Commission approval of the cable system's landing points pursuant to the procedure in
Section 1.767(a).
                  V.Environmental Impact
26.  Based on the information provided by AJC Guam and pursuant to the Commission's
procedures implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, we find that acting on the
AJC Application would not significantly affect the environment according to Section 1.1307(a) or (b) of
the Commission's rules.  Therefore, pursuant to Section 1.1306 of the Commission's rules, we conclude
that grant of the requested license would not significantly affect the environment.   Consequently, AJC
Guam is not required to submit an environmental assessment, and the AJC Application is categorically
excluded from environmental processing.
                       VI.Conclusion
27.  We grant the AJC Application for authority to land and operate a non-common carrier
fiber optic submarine cable extending between Tanguisson and Tumon Bay, Guam; Shima and
Maruyama, Japan; and Oxford Falls and Paddington, Australia, subject to the conditions listed below.
                   VII.Ordering Clauses
28.  Consistent with the foregoing and pursuant to the Cable Landing License Act and
Executive Order 10530, we hereby GRANT AND ISSUE AJC Guam a license to land and operate a non-
common carrier fiber optic cable two-fiber pair "collapsed ring" network that uses SDH technology to
provide an initial system capacity of 40 Gbps per fiber pair for service and protection, upgradable to a
total design capacity of 320 Gbps per fiber pair, extending between Guam, U.S.A. and Japan and
Australia.  This grant is subject to all rules and regulations of the Commission; any treaties or
conventions relating to communications to which the United States is or may hereafter become a party;
any action by the Commission or the Congress of the United States rescinding, changing, modifying, or
amending any rights accruing to any person hereunder; and the following conditions:
        (1)    The location of the cable system within the territorial waters of the United States, its
        territories and possessions, and upon its shore shall be in conformity with plans approved
        by the Secretary of the Army, and the cable shall be moved or shifted by the Licensee at its
        expense upon the request of the Secretary of the Army whenever he or she considers such
        course necessary in the public interest, for reasons of national defense, or for the
        maintenance or improvement of harbors for navigational purposes;
        (2)    The Licensee shall at all times comply with any requirements of U.S. government
        authorities regarding the location and concealment of the cable facilities, buildings, and
        apparatus for the purpose of protecting and safeguarding the cable from injury or
        destruction by enemies of the United States;
        (3)    The Licensee or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or under direct or
        indirect common control with it do not enjoy and shall not acquire any right to handle
        traffic on a common carrier basis to or from the United States, its territories, or its
        possessions unless such service be authorized by the Commission pursuant to Section 214
        of the Communications Act, as amended;
        (4)    The Licensee or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or under direct or
        indirect common control with it shall not acquire or enjoy any right to land, connect, or
        operate submarine cables that is denied to any other United States company by reason of
        any concession, contract, understanding, or working arrangement to which the Licensee or
        any persons controlling it, controlled by it, or under direct or indirect common control with
        it are parties;
        (5)    Neither this license nor the rights granted herein shall be transferred, assigned, or in any
        manner either voluntarily or involuntarily disposed of or disposed of indirectly by transfer
        of control of the Licensee to any persons, unless the Commission shall give prior consent in
        writing;
        (6)    The Commission reserves the right to require the Licensee to file an environmental
        assessment or environmental impact statement should it determine that the landing of the
        cable at those locations and construction of necessary cable landing stations would
        significantly affect the environment within the meaning of Section 1.1307 of the
        Commission's procedures implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969;
        this license is subject to modification by the Commission upon its review of any
        environmental assessment or environmental impact statement that it may require pursuant to
        its rules;
        (7)    Pursuant to Section 2 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  35; Executive Order
        No. 10530, as amended; and Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended,
        47 U.S.C.  214, the Commission reserves the right to impose common carrier or common-
        carrier-like regulation on the operations of the cable system if it finds that the public interest
        so requires;
        (8)    The Licensee shall maintain de jure and de facto control of the U.S. portion of the cable
        system, including the cable landing stations in the United States, sufficient to comply with
        the requirements of this license;
        (9)    This license is revocable by the Commission after due notice and opportunity for hearing
        pursuant to Section 2 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  35, or for failure to
        comply with the terms of this license;
        (10)   The Licensee shall notify the Commission in writing of the date on which the cable is
        placed in service, and this license shall expire 25 years from such date, unless renewed or
        extended upon proper application, and, upon expiration of this license, all rights granted
        under it shall be terminated; 
        (11)   The terms and conditions upon which this license is given shall be accepted by the Licensee
        by filing a letter with the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington,
        D.C. 20554, within 30 days of the release of the cable landing license;
        (12)   The Licensee shall not either directly or indirectly accept from nor offer to an affiliated
        dominant carrier or foreign landing station owned by an affiliated dominant carrier in
        Australia a "special concession," as that term is defined in Section 63.14(b) of the
        Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  63.14(b);
        (13)   The Licensee shall provide the Commission with quarterly reports (within 90 days from the
        end of each calendar quarter) summarizing the provisioning and maintenance of all network
        facilities and services procured from the Licensee's dominant affiliates and foreign cable
        landing stations owned by AJC Guam's dominant affiliates in Australia, including, but not
        limited to those services procured on behalf of customers or any joint venture in which the
        Licensee and any dominant affiliates participate; this report will contain the information
        required in Section 63.10(c)(4) of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  63.14(c)(4); and
        (14)   The Licensee and its affiliates will provide capacity users direct interface access (if
        requested by the user) to the cable network's interface as well as the ability to collocate
        their own equipment on commercially reasonable and non-discriminatory terms at the cable
        stations in order to access the AJC network. 
29.   This Order is issued under Section 0.261 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  0.261, and
is effective upon adoption.  Petitions for reconsideration under Section 1.106 or applications for review
under Section 1.115 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.106, 1.115, may be filed within 30 days
of the date of public notice of this order (see 47 C.F.R.  1.4(b)(2)).

                              FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION



                              Jacquelynn Ruff
                              Associate Chief, Telecommunications Division
                              International Bureau

                           Exhibit A



                           Exhibit B
                                


                           Exhibit C
                                


                           Exhibit D
                                


                           Exhibit E
                                


