  ********************************************************    
                         NOTICE
********************************************************

This document was converted from
WordPerfect or Word to ASCII Text format.

Content from the original version of the document such as
headers, footers, footnotes, endnotes, graphics, and page numbers
will not show up in this text version.

All text attributes such as bold, italic, underlining, etc. from the
original document will not show up in this text version.

Features of the original document layout such as
columns, tables, line and letter spacing, pagination, and margins
will not be preserved in the text version.

If you need the complete document, download the
WordPerfect version or Adobe Acrobat version, if available.

*****************************************************************
Before the
               Federal Communications Commission
                     Washington, D.C. 20554



In the Matter of

360pacific (USA) inc.

Application for a License to Land and Operate in
the United States a Private Submarine Fiber Optic
Cable between the United States and Japan

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)



                  SCL-LIC-20000620-00024




                     CABLE LANDING LICENSE

   Adopted:  November 17, 2000               Released:  November 20, 2000

Before the:  Chief, Telecommunications Division

                      I.Introduction
                                
1.In this order, we grant the Application of 360pacific (USA) inc.
("360pacific"), under the Cable Landing License Act and Executive Order No.
10530, for authority to land and operate a private fiber optic submarine cable
system to be called the 360pacific Cable Network ("360pacific CN"), extending
between the United States and Japan. We find that Applicants have provided
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the capacity of the 360pacific CN will be
sold or leased to users on a non-common carrier basis.  We conclude that
360pacific has provided sufficient information under our rules to comply with
the Cable Landing License Act and that it would serve the public interest to
grant the cable landing license subject to the routine conditions listed below.
                      II.Application
2.According to the Application, 360pacific, a Nevada corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary
of 360pacific (Denmark) ApS, a Denmark corporation. 360pacific (Denmark) ApS is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of 360pacific (Bermuda) ltd., a Bermuda company, which is, in turn, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of 360pacific (Bermuda) holdings ltd., a Bermuda company.  360pacific (Bermuda) holdings
ltd. is wholly owned by360atlantic (Bermuda1) holdings ltd., a Bermuda company.  360atlantic
(Bermuda 1) holdings ltd. is wholly owned by 360networks (infrastructure holdings) ltd., a Canadian
company.  360networks (infrastructure holdings) ltd. is wholly owned by 360networks inc.
("360networks") (formerly known as Worldwide Fiber Inc.), a Canadian company.  360networks is a
publicly traded company on the Nasdaq and Toronto Stock Exchanges.  Worldwide Fiber Holdings Ltd.,
a Canadian company with interests in the construction and communications industries, and Ledcor
Limited Partnership, a Canadian partnership, own approximately 66 percent of 360networks.  The
remaining shares of 360networks are held by officers and directors of 360networks or are widely held. 
The general partner of Ledcor Limited Partnership is Ledcor Industries Limited, a Canadian company
and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ledcor Inc., a privately held Canadian company.  One hundred
percent of the common shares of Worldwide Fiber Holdings Ltd. are held by Ledcor Industries Limited. 
The majority ownership of Ledcor Inc. is held by the Lede family, who are Canadian citizens.
3.As shown in Exhibit A attached to this Order, the proposed 360pacific CN system will connect
landing points at: Bandon, Oregon; Seattle, Washington; Oahu, Hawaii   North; Oahu, Hawaii   South;
Shim, Japan; and Maruyama, Japan.  Two paired landing stations, north and south, are planned in Japan. 
From Japan, the 360pacific CN will connect with another planned cable network, the 360asia Cable
Network, which is planned to connect Japan, South Korea, China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Hong Kong,
Singapore, and India.  Additional landing points in Bangladesh, Vietnam, and Brunei may also be added
               to the 360asia CN in the future.  
4.Applicants assert that the 360pacific CN will be configured as two protected rings, allowing
protection switching to occur in each ring independently and enhancing network survivability.  It will be
comprised of six fiber pairs with an initial capacity of 320 Gb/s, upgradable according to customer
demand to 3.84 Tb/s.  The system length will be approximately 22,323 kilometers.  The cable will be
armored wherever the water depth is less than 1,500 meters and buried to a depth of 1.5 meters wherever
the water depth is less than 1,500 meters and seabed conditions permit, in conformity with normal
industry practices.  The system will be engineered at an availability of 99.99 percent (less than 52
minutes outages per year) and a Bit Error Rate of less than 1E-13.  360pacific seeks to place the
 360pacific CN in commercial service in the third quarter 2002.
                        V.Comments
6.We placed the Application on public notice on June 30, 2000.  We received no comments. 
Pursuant to Section 1.767(b) of the Commission's rules, the Cable Landing License Act, and Executive
Order No. 10530, we informed the Department of State of the Application.  The Department of State,
after coordinating with the National Telecommunications and Information Administration and the
Department of Defense, stated that it has no objection to the issuance of the cable landing license.
                      VII.Discussion
           A.Private Submarine Cable Policy
8.360pacific proposes to use its cable system on a non-common carrier basis, offering bulk
capacity to a specific class of eligible users, including common carriers, on an original ownership,
indefeasible right of use (IRU), or lease-of-capacity basis.  Applicants assert that capacity will not be
offered indifferently to the public.  Given this, 360pacific requests a license under the Commission's
private submarine cable policy, which is intended to promote competition in the provision of
international transmission facilities.  Pursuant to this policy, the Commission has authorized non-
common carrier cables where:  (1) there is no legal compulsion to serve the public indifferently; and (2)
there are no reasons implicit in the nature of the operations to expect that the applicant would make
capacity available to the public indifferently and indiscriminately.
9.In applying the first prong of the test to submarine cable authorizations, the Commission has
stated that there will be no legal compulsion to serve the public indifferently where there is no public
interest reason to require facilities to be offered on a common carrier basis.  This public interest
analysis has generally focused on the availability of alternative common carrier facilities.  Where there
are sufficient alternatives, the Commission has found that the public interest does not require the licensee
to offer capacity on the proposed cable on a common carrier basis, but rather that, in those circumstances,
the public interest would be served by allowing a submarine cable to be operated on a non-common
                        carrier basis. 
10.360pacific asserts that there are sufficient existing and planned facilities on the U.S.-Japan
route to prevent it from exercising market power in offering services to the public.  Specifically,
360pacific asserts that alternative common and non-common carrier submarine cables serving this route
include: HAW-4/TPC-3; NPC (authorized an a non-common carrier basis to serve the U.S. Mainland,
Alaska, and Japan); TPC-4 (authorized on a common carrier basis to serve the U.S. mainland, Canada,
and Japan);  and TPC-5 (authorized on a common carrier basis to serve the U.S. Mainland, Hawaii,
Guam, and Japan).  Additionally, 360pacific asserts that Tyco International, Ltd., recently announced
plans to build a transatlantic and transpacific cable network that will compete with the 360pacific CN for
customers. 360pacific contends that, given the existence of multiple common carriers on the relevant
route and the fact that 360pacific CN's offerings will not be made available indifferently to the public,
there is no public interest reason to require 360pacific CN to be operated on a common carrier basis. 
With regard to the first prong, therefore, we do not find a legal compulsion for 360pacific to serve the
                     public indifferently.
11.Regarding the second prong of the test, we conclude that there is no reason to expect that
capacity in the proposed cable system would be held out to the public indifferently.  360pacific states that
capacity will not be sold indifferently to the user public.  Rather, capacity will be assigned pursuant to
individualized decisions in particular cases, whether and on what terms to deal, and bulk capacity will be
offered to a significantly restricted class of users, including common carriers.
12.Under Section 1.767(a)(8) of the Commission's rules, 360pacific is required to disclose its
affiliations with foreign carriers.  360pacific certifies that it is affiliated with the following foreign
carriers: 360networks (fiber1) ltd. (Canada); Ledcor Industries Limited (Canada); 360atlantic (Canada)
Inc. (Canada); 360atlantic (Ireland) limited (Ireland); 360atlantic (U.K.) limited (United Kingdom; CGC
Services Ltda. (Brazil).  360pacific asserts that none of the countries in which 360pacific's foreign
carrier affiliates operate are landing points for the 360pacific CN. 
13.There were no comments filed on the application, and 360pacific has provided unopposed
evidence of the availability of alternative cables serving the U.S.-Japan route.  Given this unopposed
evidence, we find that the public interest does not require that we impose common carrier regulation on
the operations of the 360pacific CN system at this time.  Accordingly, we conclude that it is appropriate
to license the 360pacific CN system on a non-common carrier basis.  We also find that the Applicant will
not provide a telecommunications service for a fee to such class of users as to be "effectively available
directly to the public" and thus will not be a "telecommunications carrier" under the 1996 Act.  We
note, however, that we maintain the ability to impose common carrier, or common-carrier-like,
obligations on the operations of this or any other submarine cable system if the public interest so
                           requires. 
            A.Ownership and Landing Points
14.We find that 360pacific has provided the ownership information required by Sections
1.767(a)(6) and 63.18 of the Commission's rules.  360pacific will own and control the U.S. landing
stations and that portion of the 360pacific CN system located in U.S. territorial waters.  360pacific
(Barbados) inc., a corporation organized under the laws of Barbados and a wholly-owned indirect
subsidiary of 360networks inc., will own the portion of the cable located in international waters. 
Applicants assert that the cable landing stations in Japan will be owned or leased by a wholly owned
indirect subsidiary of 360 networks, which will be organized under the laws of Japan. The portions of the
cable located in territorial waters in Japan will also be owned by this Japanese affiliate.   
15.360pacific has provided the ownership information required by Section 63.18(h) of the
Commission's rules.  360pacific provided the following list of 360pacific's 10 percent or greater
shareholders, and 360pacific asserts that no other individual or entity directly or indirectly owns more
than 10 percent of 360pacific: 360pacific (Denmark) ApS owns 100 percent of 360pacific (USA) inc.;
360pacific (Bermuda) ltd. owns 100 percent of 360pacific (Denmark) ApS; 360pacific (Bermuda)
holdings ltd. owns 100 percent of 360pacific (Bermuda) ltd.; 360atlantic (Bermuda 1) holdings ltd. owns
100 percent of 360pacific (Bermuda) holdings ltd.; 360networks (infrastructure holdings ) ltd. owns 100
percent of 360atlantic (Bermuda 1) holdings ltd.; 360networks inc. owns 100 percent of 360netwroks
(infrastructure holdings) ltd.; Worldwide Fiber Holdings Ltd. and Ledcor Limited partnership together
hold approximately 66 percent of the beneficial ownership of 360networks inc.
                     D.Environmental Impact
16.The Commission has found that the construction of new submarine cable systems,
individually and cumulatively, will not have a significant effect on the environment and therefore should
be expressly excluded from its procedures implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969.  Therefore, 360pacific is not required to submit an environmental assessment, and this
application is categorically excluded from environmental processing.
                 E.Other Information
6.360pacific states that Ledcor Industries Inc., an affiliate of 360pacific, has been granted a cable
landing license, jointly with fONOROLA Fiber Development Inc., for the AmeriCan-1 cable, which
extends, or will extend, between Seattle, Washington, and Vancouver, British Columbia. 
360atlantic(USA) inc., also an affiliate of 360pacific, has received a license to construct and operate the
360atlantic cable system (formerly the Hibernia cable system), which will connect cable stations in
Boston, Massachusetts, and Halifax, Nova Scotia, with cable stations in Dublin, Ireland, and Liverpool,
                            England.
7.360pacific notes that the Commission recently granted 360networks and GlobeNet
Communications Group Limited ("GlobeNet") authority to transfer control to 360networks of the
submarine cable landing licenses and Section 214 authorizations held by subsidiaries of GlobeNet. 
360pacific asserts that the acquisition was scheduled to close on June 20, 2000, and that, pursuant to this
transaction, 360networks will acquire control of all GlobeNet's subsidiaries, including: Atlantica USA
LLC; the licensee of the Atlantica-1 cable; TeleBermuda International limited, partial owner of the
TAT-14 cable; and TeleBermuda International, L.L.C., licensee of the BUS-1 cable.  Additionally,
360pacific asserts that 360networks will obtain control of GlobeNet's operating subsidiaries in Brazil
and Venezuela, which are currently have pending applications for authority to provide certain
                  telecommunications services.
                      VIII.Conclusion
9.For the reasons discussed above, we grant 360pacific's Application for authority to land and
operate a non-common carrier fiber optic submarine cable extending between the United States and
     Japan, subject to the routine conditions listed below.
                    X.Ordering Clauses
11.Consistent with the foregoing and pursuant to the Cable Landing License Act and Executive
Order 10530, we hereby GRANT AND ISSUE 360pacific a license to land and operate a non-common
carrier fiber optic cable comprised of six fiber pairs with an initial capacity of 320 Gb/s, upgradable
according to customer demand to 3.84 Tb/s, extending between the United States and Japan.  This grant
is subject to all rules and regulations of the Commission; any treaties or conventions relating to
communications to which the United States is or may hereafter become a party; any action by the
Commission or the Congress of the United States rescinding, changing, modifying, or amending any
rights accruing to any person hereunder; and the following conditions:
(1) The location of the cable system within the territorial waters of the United States, its territories and
possessions, and upon its shore shall be in conformity with plans approved by the Secretary of the Army,
and the cable shall be moved or shifted by the Licensee at its expense upon the request of the Secretary of
the Army, whenever he or she considers such course necessary in the public interest, for reasons of national
defense, or for the maintenance or improvement of harbors for navigational purposes;
(2)  The Licensee shall at all times comply with any requirements of U.S. government authorities
regarding the location and concealment of the cable facilities, buildings, and apparatus for the purpose of
protecting and safeguarding the cable from injury or destruction by enemies of the United States;
(3) The Licensee or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or under direct or indirect
common control with it do not enjoy and shall not acquire any right to handle traffic to or from the
United States, its territories, or its possessions unless such service be authorized by the Commission
 pursuant to Section 214 of the Communications Act, as amended;
(4) The Licensee or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or under direct or indirect
common control with it shall not acquire or enjoy any right to land, connect, or operate submarine cables,
that is denied to any other United States company by reason of any concession, contract, understanding,
or working arrangement to which the Licensee or any persons controlling it, controlled by it, or under
direct or indirect common control with it are parties;
(5)  Neither this license nor the rights granted herein shall be transferred, assigned, or in any manner
either voluntarily or involuntarily disposed of or disposed of indirectly by transfer of control of the
Licensee to any persons, unless the Commission shall give prior consent in writing; 
(6) The Licensee shall notify the Commission in writing of the precise locations at which the cable will
land in Japan.  Such notification with respect to any given landing location shall occur no later than
90 days prior to commencing construction at the landing location.  The Commission will give public
notice of the filing of each description, and grant of this license will be considered final with respect
to that landing location unless the Commission issues a notice to the contrary no later than 60 days
          after receipt of the specific description;
(7)Pursuant to Section 1.767(a)(8) of the Commission's Rules and in conformity with Section 63.18 (i)  
(k), Licensee shall submit to the Commission in writing an updated certification of its foreign carrier
affiliates within 14 days of acquiring a new foreign carrier affiliation.
(8) The Commission reserves the right to require the Licensee to file an environmental assessment or
environmental impact statement should it determine that the landing of the cable at those locations and
construction of necessary cable landing stations would significantly affect the environment within the
meaning of Section 1.1307 of the Commission's procedures implementing the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969; this license is subject to modification by the Commission upon its review of any
environmental assessment or environmental impact statement that it may require pursuant to its rules;
(9) Pursuant to Section 2 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  35; Executive Order No. 10530,
as amended; and Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C.  214, the
Commission reserves the right to impose common carrier regulation or other regulation consistent with
the Cable Landing License Act on the operations of the cable system if it finds that the public interest so
requires; 
(10) The Licensee shall maintain de jure and de facto control of the U.S. portion of the cable system,
including the cable landing stations in the United States, sufficient to comply with the requirements of
                        this license;  
(11) This license is revocable by the Commission after due notice and opportunity for hearing pursuant to
Section 2 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  35, or for failure to comply with the terms of
                      the authorizations;
(12) The Licensee shall notify the Commission in writing of the date on which the cable is placed in
service, and this license shall expire 25 years from such date, unless renewed or extended upon proper
application, and, upon expiration of this license, all rights granted under it shall be terminated; and
(13) The terms and conditions upon which this license is given shall be accepted by the Licensee by
filing a letter with the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. 20554, within
      30 days of the release of the cable landing license.
                                                                
8.This Order is issued under Section 0.261 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  0.261, and is
effective upon release.  Petitions for reconsideration under Section 1.106 or applications for review under
Section 1.115 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.106, 1.115, may be filed within 30 days of the
date of public notice of this order (see 47 C.F.R.  1.4(b)(2)).
                                
               FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
                                
                                
                                
                        Rebecca Arbogast
               Chief, Telecommunications Division
                      International Bureau
                                                           EXHIBIT A
                                
