********************************************************    
                         NOTICE
********************************************************

This document was converted from
WordPerfect or Word to ASCII Text format.

Content from the original version of the document such as
headers, footers, footnotes, endnotes, graphics, and page numbers
will not show up in this text version.

All text attributes such as bold, italic, underlining, etc. from the
original document will not show up in this text version.

Features of the original document layout such as
columns, tables, line and letter spacing, pagination, and margins
will not be preserved in the text version.

If you need the complete document, download the
WordPerfect version or Adobe Acrobat version, if available.

*****************************************************************
                           Before the
               Federal Communications Commission
                     Washington, D.C. 20554

In the Matter of                        )
                                        )
TYCOM NETWORKS (US) INC.                )
                                        )
and                                     )
                                        )
TYCOM NETWORKS (GUAM) L.L.C.            )
                                   )
Application for a License to Land and Operate               )    File No.  SCL-LIC-20000717-00026
a Private Fiber-Optic Cable System                               )
Between the United States Mainland, Hawaii,            )
Guam, and Japan,                        )
                                        )
THE TYCOM PACIFIC CABLE SYSTEM          )

                            CABLE LANDING LICENSE

     Adopted:  December 7, 2000                                  Released:  December 8, 2000

By the Associate Chief, Telecommunications Division, International Bureau:

                             I.  Introduction

1.     In this Order, we grant the Application of TyCom Networks (US) Inc. (TyCom US) and
TyCom Networks (Guam) L.L.C. (TyCom Guam) (collectively Applicants) under the Cable Landing
License Act and Executive Order No. 10530, for authority to land and operate a private fiber optic
submarine cable system to be called the TyCom Pacific Cable System (TyCom Pacific) between Los
Angeles, California; Nedonna Beach, Oregon; Honolulu, Hawaii; Piti, Guam; and Shima, Japan.  This
system will be operated on a non common carrier basis.  We find that Applicants have provided
sufficient information to comply with our rules and the Cable Landing License Act, and that it would
serve the public interest to grant the cable landing license subject to the conditions listed below. 
                             II.  Application
2.        TyCom US, a Nevada corporation, and TyCom Guam, a corporation under the laws of
the Territory of Guam, are wholly owned subsidiaries of TyCom Networks, a Bermuda company engaged
in the ownership and operation of a global fiber-optic network.  TyCom Networks is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of TyCom Ltd., which in turn is controlled by Tyco International Ltd. (Tyco), a publicly
traded Bermuda company listed on the New York, London, and Bermuda stock exchanges.   Tyco has no
ten percent or greater beneficial shareholders.  Applicants assert that TyCom US will own and operate the
California, Oregon, and Hawaii landing stations and the U.S. territory portions of TyCom Pacific between those
landing stations to the points which are one-half mile beyond the U.S. territorial limit.  TyCom Guam will own and
operate the Piti, Guam, landing station and the Guam territory portion of TyCom Pacific between the Guam station
to the point which is one-half mile beyond the U.S. territorial limit.  A Japanese subsidiary of TyCom Networks
will own or otherwise control the Japan landing station and own the Japan territory portion of TyCom Pacific from
the landing station to the point which is one-half mile beyond the Japan territorial limit.  TyCom Networks will
itself own the remaining portions of TyCom Pacific.
3.     The proposed TyCom Pacific system will connect:  (1) Los Angeles, California;           (2) Nedonna
Beach, Oregon; (3) Honolulu, Hawaii; (4) Piti, Guam; and (5) Shima, Japan.  According to the Application, TyCom
Pacific will be a digital fiber-optic system with a minimum design capacity of 640 Gbps per fiber pair on all eight
fiber pairs in a self-healing ring configuration consisting of the five submarine cable segments.  Each segment will
contain eight optical fiber pairs, and each of these fiber pairs will be capable of carrying a minimum of sixty-four
wavelengths of traffic, with each wavelength operating at a nominal rate of 10 Gbps.  Applicants will also
construct, lease, or otherwise obtain backhaul facilities to serve:  Seattle, Washington; Portland, Oregon; Los
Angeles, California; and Nagoya, Japan, to provide alternative interconnection points to the TyCom Global Network
for those customers requiring city-to-city transport.  The System Interface is a Synchronous Transport Module One
(STM-1) digital input/output port on the digital distribution frame (excluding the digital distribution frame itself). 
The capacity of each wavelength is comprised of 64 STM-1 signals (the nominal data rate of STM-1 is 155
megabits per second).  System interfaces will also be made available at the STM-4, STM-16, and STM-64 levels. 
Applicants anticipate that the proposed TyCom Pacific system will begin operation in May 2002.  TyCom Pacific
will form part of the TyCom  Global Network.
                              III.  Comments
5.     We placed the Application on public notice on July 21, 2000.  We received no comments.  Pursuant
to Section 1.767(b) of the Commission's rules, the Cable Landing License Act, and Executive Order No. 10530,
we informed the Department of State of the Application.  The Department of State, after coordinating with the
National Telecommunications and Information Administration and the Department of Defense, stated that it has no
objection to issuance of the cable landing license.    
                               IV.  Discussion
     A.   Private Submarine Cable Policy
6.     Applicants propose to operate TyCom Pacific as a non common carrier submarine cable system. 
Applicants request a license under the Commission's private submarine cable policy, which is intended to promote
competition in the provision of international transmission facilities.  Pursuant to this policy, the Commission has
authorized non common carrier cables where: (1) there is no legal compulsion to serve the public indifferently; and
(2) there are no reasons implicit in the nature of the operations to expect that the applicant would make capacity
available to the public indifferently and indiscriminately.
7.     In applying the first prong of the test to submarine cable authorizations, the Commission has stated
that there will be no legal compulsion to serve the public indifferently where there is no public interest reason to
require facilities to be offered on a common carrier basis.  This public interest analysis has generally focused on
whether an applicant will be able to exercise market power because of the lack of alternative facilities.  Where
there are sufficient alternatives, the Commission has found that the public interest does not require the licensee to
offer capacity on the proposed cable on a common carrier basis, but rather that, in those circumstances, the public
interest would be served by allowing a submarine cable to be offered on a non-common carrier basis.
8.     Applicants assert that they are not affiliated with any foreign carrier.  In addition, Applicants assert
that there are sufficient existing or planned facilities on the routes to prevent them from exercising market power in
offering services to the public, including the following cables extending to Japan:  (1) TPC-3 (authorized on a
common carrier basis between the U.S. mainland, Hawaii, Guam, Japan, and the Philippines); (2) TPC-4
(authorized on a common carrier basis between the United States mainland, Canada, and Japan); (3) TPC-5
(authorized on a common carrier basis between the United States mainland, Hawaii, Guam, and Japan); (4) North
Pacific (authorized on a non-common carrier basis between the United States and Japan); (5) Japan-US
(authorized on a non-common carrier basis between the United States and Japan); (6) China-US (authorized on a
non-common carrier basis between the United States, China, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, and Guam); (7) Pacific
Crossing 1 (authorized on a non-common carrier basis between the United States and Japan); and (8) FLAG
Pacific-1 (the application for this cable proposes that it will be operated on a non-common carrier basis between the
United States, Canada, Japan and Korea).  Given the unopposed evidence of the availability of alternative cables,
we find that the first prong of the NARUC I test has been met.
9.     Regarding the second prong of the test, we conclude that there is no reason to expect that capacity on
the proposed cable system would be held out to the public indifferently.  Applicants state that capacity will not be
sold indifferently to the user public.  Rather, capacity will be made available to users on an indefeasible right-of-use
(IRU) or leased-capacity basis, on terms tailored to their particular needs.  TyCom Pacific will provide bulk
capacity to particular users, including common carriers, carrier consortia, and other third parties who require
significant amounts of capacity.  Capacity will be assigned pursuant to individualized decisions, depending on the
characteristics and needs of the individual capacity purchaser.  We conclude that Applicants will not offer capacity
on TyCom Pacific to the public on a common carrier basis and that the public interest does not require that they do
so.  We also find that the Applicant will not provide a telecommunications service for a fee to such class of users as
to be "effectively available directly to the public" and thus will not be a "telecommunication carrier" under the 1996
Act.  We find, therefore, that the second prong of the NARUC I test has been met.
10.    No one has advocated that the public interest requires TyCom Pacific to be operated on a common
carrier basis. We note, however, that we maintain the ability to impose common carrier or common-carrier-like
obligations on the operations of this or any other submarine cable system if the public interest so requires. 
Furthermore, we have always maintained the authority to classify facilities as common carrier facilities
subject to Title II of the Communications Act if the public interest requires that the facilities be offered
to the public indifferently.
     B.   Ownership and Landing Points
12.    Applicants have provided the ownership information required by Sections 1.767(a)(6) and
63.18 of the Commission's rules.  TyCom US and TyCom Guam are ultimately controlled by Tyco.
TyCom US will own and operate the California, Oregon, and Hawaii landing stations and the U.S.
territory portions of TyCom Pacific between those landing stations to the points which are one-half mile
beyond the U.S. territorial limit.  TyCom Guam will own and operate the Piti, Guam, landing station and
the Guam territory portion of TyCom Pacific between the Guam station to the point which is one-half
mile beyond the U.S. territorial limit.  A Japanese subsidiary of TyCom Networks will own or otherwise
control the Japan landing station and own the Japan territory portion of TyCom Pacific from the landing
station to the point which is one-half mile beyond the Japan territorial limit.  TyCom Networks will itself
own the remaining portions of TyCom Pacific.  Applicants state that they have no affiliations within the
meaning of Section 63.18(h)(1)(A) of the Commission's rules.
13.    Section 1.767(a) of the Commission's rules permits applicants in an initial application to
provide a general description of the landing points.  The Applicant must file a specific description of any
landing point, including a map, no later than 90 days prior to construction at that landing point.  We find
the Applicants' description of the likely landing points to be sufficient to determine that the proposed
cable system will comply with the provisions of the Commission rules.  Moreover, the Applicants have
stated that they will comply with Section 1.767(a)(5) of the Commission's rules by providing specific
information on the cable landing locations 90 days prior to commencing construction.  The Commission
will give public notice of the filing of the specific description, and grant of the license will be considered
final with respect to that landing point unless the Commission notifies the Applicants to the contrary no
later than 60 days after receipt of the specific description of the landing point.
     C.   Environmental Impact
14.    The Commission has found that the construction of new submarine cable systems,
individually and cumulatively, will not have a significant effect on the environment and therefore should
be expressly excluded from our procedures implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969.  Therefore, Applicants are not required to submit an environmental assessment, and this
application is categorically excluded from environmental processing.

                              V.  Conclusion
15.    We grant the Application of TyCom US and TyCom Guam for authority to land and operate
a non-common carrier fiber optic submarine cable extending between U.S. Mainland, Hawaii, Guam, and
Japan, subject to the conditions listed below.
                            VI.  Ordering Clauses
16.    Consistent with the foregoing and pursuant to the Cable Landing License Act and Executive
Order 10530, we hereby GRANT AND ISSUE TyCom US and TyCom Guam a license to land and
operate a non common carrier digital fiber-optic system with a minimum design capacity of 640 Gbps
per fiber pair on all eight fiber pairs in a self-healing ring configuration consisting of five submarine
cable segments, extending between the U.S. Mainland, Hawaii, Guam, and Japan.  This grant is subject
to all rules and regulations of the Commission; any treaties or conventions relating to communications to
which the United States is or may hereafter become a party; any action by the Commission or the
Congress of the United States rescinding, changing, modifying, or amending any rights accruing to any
person hereunder; and the following conditions:
          (1)  The location of the cable system within the territorial waters of the United States, its
     territories and possessions, and upon its shore shall be in conformity with plans approved by the
     Secretary of the Army, and the cable shall be moved or shifted by Licensees at their expense
     upon the request of the Secretary of the Army whenever he or she considers such course
     necessary in the public interest, for reasons of national defense, or for the maintenance or
     improvement of harbors for navigational purposes;
          (2)  Licensees shall at all times comply with any requirements of U.S. government authorities
     regarding the location and concealment of the cable facilities, buildings, and apparatus for the
     purpose of protecting and safeguarding the cable from injury or destruction by enemies of the
     United States;
            (3)  Licensees or any persons or companies controlling them, controlled by them, or under direct
     or indirect common control with them do not enjoy and shall not acquire any right to handle
     traffic on a common carrier basis to or from the United States, its territories, or its possessions
     unless such service be authorized by the Commission pursuant to Section 214 of the
     Communications Act, as amended;
          (4)  Licensees or any persons or companies controlling them, controlled by them, or under direct
     or indirect common control with them shall not acquire or enjoy any right for the purpose of
     handling or interchanging traffic to or from the United States, its territories, or its possessions to
     land, connect, or operate cables or land lines, to construct or operate radio stations, or to
     interchange traffic, that is denied to any other United States company by reason of any
     concession, contract, understanding, or working arrangement to which Licensees or any persons
     controlling them, controlled by them, or under direct or indirect common control with them are
     parties;
       (5)     Neither this license nor the rights granted herein shall be transferred, assigned, or in any
       manner either voluntarily or involuntarily disposed of or disposed of indirectly by transfer of
       control of Licensees to any persons, unless the Commission shall give prior consent in
       writing;
          (6)  Licensees shall notify the Commission in writing of the precise locations at which the cable
     will land in Los Angeles, California; Nedonna Beach, Oregon; Honolulu, Hawaii; Piti, Guam;
     and Shima, Japan.  Such notification with respect to any given landing location shall occur no
     later than 90 days prior to commencing construction at that landing location.  The Commission
     will give public notice of the filing of each description, and grant of this license will be
     considered final with respect to that landing location unless the Commission issues a notice to
     the contrary no later than 60 days after receipt of the specific description; 
       (7)  The Commission reserves the right to require Licensees to file an environmental assessment
     or environmental impact statement should it determine that the landing of the cable at those
     locations and construction of necessary cable landing stations would significantly affect the
     environment within the meaning of Section 1.1307 of the Commission's procedures
     implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; this license is subject to
     modification by the Commission upon its review of any environmental assessment or
     environmental impact statement that it may require pursuant to its rules;
          (8)  Pursuant to Section 35 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  35; Executive Order
     No. 10530, as amended; and Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47
     U.S.C.  214, the Commission reserves the right to impose common carrier or common-carrier-
     like regulation on the operations of the cable system if it finds that the public interest so requires;
     
       (9)  Licensees shall maintain de jure and de facto control of the U.S. portion of the cable system,
     including the cable landing stations in the United States, sufficient to comply with the
     requirements of this license;  
       (10)  This license is revocable by the Commission after due notice and opportunity for hearing
     pursuant to Section 35 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  35, or for failure to comply
     with the terms of the authorizations;
       (11)  Licensees shall notify the Commission in writing of the date on which the cable is placed in
     service, and this license shall expire 25 years from such date, unless renewed or extended upon
     proper application, and, upon expiration of this license, all rights granted under it shall be
     terminated; and
       (12)  The terms and conditions upon which this license is given shall be accepted by Licensees
     by filing a letter with the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C.
     20554, within 30 days of the release of the cable landing license.
6.     This Order is issued under Section 0.261 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  0.261, and is
effective upon adoption.  Petitions for reconsideration under Section 1.106 or applications for review
under Section 1.115 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.106, 1.115, may be filed within 30 days of
the date of public notice of this order (see 47 C.F.R.  1.4(b)(2)).
                              FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

                              Jacquelynn Ruff
                              Associate Chief, Telecommunications Division
                              International Bureau



