********************************************************    
                         NOTICE
********************************************************

This document was converted from
WordPerfect to ASCII Text format.

Content from the original version of the document such as
headers, footers, footnotes, endnotes, graphics, and page numbers
will not show up in this text version.

All text attributes such as bold, italic, underlining, etc. from the
original document will not show up in this text version.

Features of the original document layout such as
columns, tables, line and letter spacing, pagination, and margins
will not be preserved in the text version.

If you need the complete document, download the
WordPerfect version or Adobe Acrobat version, if available.

*****************************************************************


                            Before the
                Federal Communications Commission
                      Washington, D.C. 20554

     
    In the Matter of)
     )
  TELEBERMUDA         )       
INTERNATIONAL, L.L.C.              )         File No. SCL-95-009
                              )
 Application for a License to Land and)
 Operate a Private Submarine Fiber Optic)         
 Cable between the United States and )
Bermuda                       )
     

                     CABLE LANDING LICENSE


    Adopted:  December 4, 1996  Released:  December 6, 1996  

By the Chief, Telecommunications Division:

                         I.  Introduction

      1.TeleBermuda International, L.L.C. (TBI-US) seeks authorization under the
Cable Landing License Act to land and operate a digital private fiber optic submarine cable
system, BUS-1, extending between the United States and Bermuda.  TBI-US proposes to
operate BUS-1 on a non-tariffed, non-common carrier basis.  We find that TBI-US has
provided sufficient information under our rules to comply with the Cable Landing License
Act and grant this application, subject to the conditions listed below.

                     II.  Amended Application

      2.The applicant, TBI-US, is a Delaware limited liability company in which 80
percent of the ownership shares is owned by Elbac Cable Corporation (ECC) and 20 percent
is owned by TeleBermuda International Ltd. (TBI-Bermuda).  ECC, a Delaware corporation, is
100 percent owned by the David A. Bayer Trust.  David A. Bayer, a U.S. citizen, is the
grantor, sole trustee, and during his lifetime the sole beneficiary of the David A. Bayer
Trust.  TBI-Bermuda, a Bermudian corporation, is 60 percent owned by Bermudian
shareholders and 40 percent owned by Canadian shareholders.  

      3.TBI-US will serve as the licensee for the U.S. landing license and will own all
plant and equipment landing in the United States.  TBI-Bermuda will hold the cable
landing license in Bermuda and will own all plant and equipment landing in Bermuda.   The
international portion of the cable (BUS-1) will be owned by a separate corporation, BUS-1
Cable, L.L.C., a Delaware corporation owned equally by TBI-US and TBI-Bermuda.  

      4.BUS-1 will land on the U.S. end at AT&T's existing cable landing station in
Tuckerton, New Jersey.  From this station, the cable will extend underwater to a branching
unit, and from the branching unit to a cable station located at the southern coast of
Bermuda.  The cable will be used to provide voice, data, and video services with a
transmission speed of 2.5 Gbit/s, with the ability to upgrade the transmission speed and
capacity for future use.  BUS-1 also will be able to provide restoration capabilities for
other cables connecting the U.S. mainland and Bermuda.  BUS-1 is scheduled to be
operational as soon as possible.

      5.Capacity in BUS-1 will be sold through ownership, indefeasible right of user,
or lease to users on a non-tariffed, non common carrier basis.  TBI-US states that it is
not required to apply for authority under Title II of the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended, (the Act) because the proposed services will not be offered on a common carrier
basis.  Therefore, the Commission should consider its application pursuant only to the Cable
Landing License Act.

                          III.  Comments

      6.We placed the initial application on public notice.  Atlantic Express
Communications II, L.L.C. (Atlantic Express) and ComSouth Cable International, Inc. (CSCI)
filed petitions to deny.  TBI-Bermuda filed a response, to which Atlantic Express replied. 
TBI-Bermuda and TBI-US subsequently filed an amendment to the original application.  We
placed the amendment on public notice.  Atlantic Express filed a petition to deny and Optel
Communications, Inc. (Optel) filed comments.  TBI-US filed a reply to Atlantic Express and
Optel.

      7.In their petitions to deny the original application, Atlantic Express and CSCI
generally argued that, because TBI-Bermuda is foreign-owned, the application should be
denied until reciprocal opportunities exist for U.S. carriers to land and operate cables in
Bermuda.  In response, TBI-Bermuda stated that Bermuda has allowed U.S. firms to own
and operate capacity in submarine cables that land in Bermuda.  TBI-Bermuda also
asserted that the Bermudian Government is committed to opening its telecommunications
market.

      8.TBI-Bermuda's amendment changed the proposed licensee to TBI-US.  TBI-US
will own 100 percent of the U.S. plant and equipment and 50 percent of BUS-1.  TBI-
Bermuda will own 100 percent of the Bermudian plant and equipment and 50 percent of
BUS-1.  In response, Atlantic Express and Optel asserted that TBI-US must file a new
application to change the applicant.  In addition, Atlantic Express argued that the
amendment was not signed by the new applicant, TBI-US, and that TBI-US had not
complied with the Commission's rules with regard to the Federal Drug Abuse Act of 1988, 21
U.S.C.  862.

      9.Pursuant to Section 1.767(b) of the Commission's rules, the Cable Landing
License Act, and Executive Order No. 10530, we informed the Department of State of this
application.  On November 19, 1996, the Department of State, after coordinating with the
Department of Commerce's National Telecommunications and Information Administration
and the Department of Defense, stated that it approves of the granting of the cable license,
subject to the Commission imposing certain conditions.  These conditions include requiring: 
(1) any common carrier seeking to acquire or use capacity on BUS-1 to obtain Section 214
authorization from the Commission; and (2) TBI-US to "obtain prior Commission approval
for the transfer of the cable landing license, the rights granted therein, or any change in
ownership or control of the cable."  The Department of State also requested that the
Commission notify it of any such applications or other filings by TBI-US and provide an
adequate opportunity for the Department of State to review and comment to the
Commission.

                         IV.  Discussion

     A.  Procedural Issues

      10.Atlantic Express and Optel assert that TBI-Bermuda's amendment changed
the proposed licensee to TBI-US.  Therefore, according to Atlantic Express and Optel, the
new applicant, TBI-US, must file a new application.  Although the Commission's rules
require that a separate application be filed for each individual cable system, no other
Commission rules or decisions applicable to cable landing license applications limit the
content of amendments to such applications, even as to the ownership and identity of the
applicant.  We thus find that the proposed amendment to the original application, including
the designation of a new applicant, is consistent with our rules.  Moreover, we note that
parties have had full opportunity to comment on both the original application and the
amendment.

      11.Atlantic Express also argues that TBI-US did not comply with the
Commission's rules because it failed to sign the application amendment and failed to certify
that neither TBI-US nor any party to the application is subject to a denial of Federal
benefits pursuant to the Federal Drug Abuse Act of 1988.  We note that Section 1.744 of the
Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.744, requires an applicant to sign amendments in the
same manner as the initial application.  Although TBI-US did not sign the original
application or the amendment, it subsequently filed a signed certification stating that
Thomas R. Rudd, on behalf of TBI-US, had reviewed the amendment and that it is, to the
best of his knowledge, true and correct.  In addition, pursuant to Section 1.2002 of the
Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.2002, TBI-US certified that neither TBI-US nor any of its
principals is subject to a denial of Federal benefits pursuant to the Federal Drug Abuse Act
of 1988, 21 U.S.C.  862.  We find that TBI-US' certifications are sufficient to comply with
our rules.

     B.  Private Submarine Cable Policy

      12.TBI-US requests a license under the Commission's private submarine cable
policy to promote competition in the provision of international transmission facilities. 
Pursuant to this policy, the Commission has authorized non common carrier cables where
there is no legal compulsion to serve the public indifferently and no reasons implicit in the
nature of the operations to expect an indifferent holding-out to the eligible user public. 
Because of the wide availability of common carrier circuits on existing and future cables
and satellite circuits between the United States and Bermuda, there is no public-interest
reason to require that TBI-US' proposed cable facilities be provided on a common carrier
basis.  

      13.In addition, because the applicant will individually negotiate with interested
users and therefore will make "individualized decisions, whether and on what terms to
deal," and will not undertake to "carry for all people indifferently," there is no reason to
expect that the proposed cable circuits would be held out to the public indifferently.  We
thus conclude that TBI-Bermuda will not offer capacity in the proposed cable system to the
public on a common carrier basis and accordingly is not subject to regulation under Title II
of the Communications Act.  

     C.  Analysis Under the Cable Landing License Act

      14.While there is no need to require that the proposed BUS-1 cable be operated
on a common carrier basis, Atlantic Express and CSCI argue that TBI-US' application fails
to satisfy the reciprocity standard of the Cable Landing License Act and thus should be
denied.  Atlantic Express also submits that it is concerned that the opportunities open to
competitors in the U.S. market are not matched by opportunities to compete in foreign
markets.  Atlantic Express asserts that this concern is the foundation of our Foreign
Carrier Entry Order and of the Cable Landing License Act.  TBI-US responds that it has
met the reciprocity standard of the Cable Landing License Act and furthermore that an
effective competitive opportunities (ECO) analysis as set forth in the Foreign Carrier Entry
Order should not apply to this application.  

      15.In the Foreign Carrier Entry Order, the Commission determined that it will
examine whether effective competitive opportunities exist for U.S. carriers in the
destination markets of foreign carriers with market power seeking to enter the U.S.
international services market either directly or through an affiliation under Section 214 of
the Act.  The Commission similarly would examine whether foreign markets offer effective
competitive opportunities to U.S. entities in considering foreign investment in excess of the
benchmarks contained in Section 310(b)(4) of the Act.  The Commission has not yet
specifically applied an effective competitive opportunities analysis to non-common carrier
submarine cables under the Cable Landing License Act.  Thus, we will examine this
application under our existing cable landing license precedent.

      16.We find that TBI-Bermuda's 20 percent ownership in TBI-US, the proposed
licensee, is consistent with our previous decisions.  For example, in Optel, the Commission
found that the 20 percent ownership interest by Teleglobe, a Canadian carrier, in Optel, the
U.S. licensee of CANUS-1, did not represent facilities-based entry into the U.S. market by
Teleglobe and thus did not raise the issue of reciprocity under the Cable Landing License
Act.  The Commission found that Optel is a U.S. corporation operating within the territory
of the United States, and that licensing of CANUS-1 to Optel does not itself give rise to the
kind of foreign presence that prompted Congress to enact the reciprocity provisions of the
Cable Landing License Act.

      17.Similarly, we find that TBI-Bermuda's 20 percent ownership interest in TBI-
US, as reflected in the amended application, does not implicate the reciprocity provisions of
the Cable Landing License Act.  As in Optel, TBI-US is a U.S. corporation operating in the
territory of the United States and licensing of BUS-1 to TBI-US does not itself give rise to
the kind of foreign presence that prompted Congress to enact the reciprocity provisions of
the Cable Landing License Act.  Thus, we need not apply a reciprocity analysis in this case.

      18.We note that this analysis is consistent with our Foreign Carrier Entry Order. 
The Foreign Carrier Entry Order adopted a level of 25 percent ownership of capital stock, or
a controlling interest at any level, for classifying a U.S. carrier as an "affiliate" of a foreign
carrier for the purpose of applying the ECO analysis under Section 214 of the Act.  Section
310(b)(4) of the Act also establishes a 25 percent benchmark for applying a public interest
analysis to certain radio licenses.  Under either standard, TBI-Bermuda's 20 percent
ownership of TBI-US falls below the established benchmark.  

     D.  Landing Points

      19.Consistent with prior decisions, we find that TBI-US' description that BUS-1
will land in Tuckerton, New Jersey and on the southern coast of Bermuda to be sufficient to
determine whether the proposed cable system would comply with the provisions of the
Cable Landing License Act and Commission rules.  Pursuant to Section 1.767(a)(5) of the
Commission's rules, however, TBI-US must provide a specific description of the landing
locations, including a map, no later than ninety days prior to construction.  We condition
this license upon final approval of the landing points.  The Commission will give public
notice of this description, and grant of the license will be considered final unless we issue a
public notice to the contrary no later than sixty days after receipt of the specific
description of the landing point.

     E.  Environmental Impact

      20.Based on the information provided by TBI-US and pursuant to the
Commission's procedures implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, we
conclude that the grant of the requested authorizations would have no significant effect on
the quality of the human environment and is therefore categorically excluded from
environmental processing.  Consequently, TBI-US is not required to submit an
environmental assessment with this application.

      21.Accordingly, we conclude that U.S. interests under the Cable Landing License
Act will be served by grant of the license to TBI-US, as conditioned below.

                       V.  Ordering Clauses

      22.Consistent with the foregoing, we hereby GRANT AND ISSUE, under the
provisions of the Cable Landing License Act and Executive Order 10530, TeleBermuda
International, L.L.C. a license to land and operate a digital non-common carrier fiber optic
submarine cable system extending between the United States and Bermuda, with landing
points in Tuckerton, New Jersey and the southern coast of Bermuda.  The cable will be used
to provide voice, data, and video services at a transmission speed of 2.5 Gbit/s, with the
ability to upgrade the transmission speed and capacity for future use. This grant is subject
to all rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission; any treaties or
conventions relating to communications to which the United States is or may hereafter
become a party; any action by the Commission or the Congress of the United States
rescinding, changing, modifying, or amending any rights accruing to any person hereunder;
and the following conditions:

     (1)  The location of the cable system within the territorial waters of the United
     States of America, its territories and possessions, and upon its shore shall be in
     conformity with plans approved by the Secretary of the Army, and the cable shall be
     moved or shifted by the Licensee at its expense upon the request of the Secretary of
     the Army whenever he or she considers such course necessary in the public interest,
     for reasons of national defense, or for the maintenance or improvement of harbors
     for navigational purposes;

     (2)  The Licensee shall at all times comply with any requirements of United States
     government authorities regarding the location and concealment of the cable
     facilities, buildings, and apparatus for the purpose of protecting and safeguarding
     the cable from injury or destruction by enemies of the United States of America;

     (3)  The Licensee or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or
     under direct or indirect common control with it does not enjoy and shall not
     acquire any right to handle traffic to or from the United States, its territories, or
     its possessions unless such service be authorized by the Commission pursuant to
     Section 214 of the Communications Act, as amended; 

     (4)  The Licensee or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or
     under direct or indirect common control with it shall not acquire or enjoy any right
     for the purpose of handling or interchanging traffic to or from the United States, its
     territories, or its possessions to land, connect, or operate cables or landlines, to
     construct or operate radio stations, or to interchange traffic, that is denied to any
     other United States company by reason of any concession, contract, understanding,
     or working arrangement to which the Licensee or any persons controlling it,
     controlled by it, or under direct or indirect common control with it are parties;

     (5)  Neither this license nor the rights granted herein shall be transferred, assigned,
     or in any manner either voluntarily or involuntarily disposed of or disposed of
     indirectly by transfer of control of the Licensee to any persons, unless the Federal
     Communications Commission shall give prior consent in writing;

     (6)  The Licensee shall notify the Commission in writing of the precise locations at
     which the cable will land no later than ninety days prior to commencing
     construction of the cable landing station at those locations.  The Commission will
     give public notice of the filing of these descriptions, and grant of this license will be
     considered final unless the Commission issues a notice to the contrary no later than
     sixty days after receipt of the specific description of the landing points;

     (7)  The Commission reserves the right to require the Licensee to file an
     environmental assessment or environmental impact statement should it determine
     that the landing of the cable at those locations and construction of necessary cable
     landing stations would significantly affect the environment within the meaning of
     Section 1.1307 of the Commission's procedures implementing the National
     Environmental Policy Act of 1969; this license is subject to modification by the
     Commission upon its review of any environmental assessment or environmental
     impact statement that it may require pursuant to its rules;

     (8)  The Licensee shall maintain no less than a 50-percent direct or indirect
     ownership interest and voting control share in the cable, including 100-percent
     direct ownership in the cable stations in the United States and in the U.S. land
     portion of the cable from the stations to the U.S. beach joint of the submerged
     portion of the cable;

     (9)  The Licensee shall, by application, obtain Commission approval prior to the sale
     or transfer to a foreign entity of five percent or more in the aggregate of U.S.-
     owned and -controlled stock; 

     (10)  This license is revocable by the Commission after due notice and opportunity
     for hearing pursuant to section 2 of "An Act Relating to the Landing and Operation
     of Submarine Cables in the United States," 47 U.S.C.  35, or for failure to comply
     with the terms of the authorizations;

     (11)  The Licensee shall notify the Commission in writing of the date on which the
     cable is placed in service, and this license shall expire 25 years from such date,
     unless renewed or extended upon proper application, and, upon expiration of this
     license, all rights granted under it shall be terminated; and 

     (12)  The terms and conditions upon which this license is given shall be accepted by
     the Licensee by filing a letter with the Secretary, Federal Communications
     Commission, Washington, D.C. 20554, within 30 days of the release of the cable
     landing license.

      23.This Order is issued under Section 0.261 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.
 0.261, and is effective upon release.  Petitions for reconsideration under Section 1.106 or
applications for review under Section 1.115 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.106,
1.115, may be filed within 30 days of the date of public notice of this order (see 47 C.F.R.
 1.4(b)(2)).

                         FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION



     Diane J. Cornell
     Chief, Telecommunications Division
     International Bureau