********************************************************    
                         NOTICE
********************************************************

This document was converted from
WordPerfect to ASCII Text format.

Content from the original version of the document such as
headers, footers, footnotes, endnotes, graphics, and page numbers
will not show up in this text version.

All text attributes such as bold, italic, underlining, etc. from the
original document will not show up in this text version.

Features of the original document layout such as
columns, tables, line and letter spacing, pagination, and margins
will not be preserved in the text version.

If you need the complete document, download the
WordPerfect version or Adobe Acrobat version, if available.

*****************************************************************
                            Before the
                Federal Communications Commission
                      Washington, D.C. 20554

In the Matter of                )
                                )
GST Telecom, Inc.               )
                                )
Application for a License to Land and)       File No. SCL-96-001
Operate a Submarine Fiber Optic Cable)
Extending Between the Northern Mariana)
Islands of Saipan, Tinian, and Rota and the)
Territory of Guam               )


                     CABLE LANDING LICENSE


   Adopted:  March 11, 1997             Released:  March 14, 1997

By the Chief, Telecommunications Division:

     1.  In this Order, we grant the application of GST Telecom, Inc., (GST) under the
Cable Landing License Act for authority to land and operate a submarine fiber optic cable
system to be called the "Mariana-Guam Cable" extending between the Commonwealth of
Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) and the Territory of Guam.  The cable will have landing
points on Guam and the three CNMI islands of Saipan, Tinian, and Rota.  The cable will be
operated on a non common carrier basis.  We find that GST has provided sufficient
information under our rules to comply with the Cable Landing License Act and therefore grant
the cable landing license subject to the conditions listed below.

                        GST's Application

     2.  GST is a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of GST USA, Inc.,
another Delaware corporation.  GST USA, Inc., is wholly owned by GST
Telecommunications, Inc., a publicly traded Canadian corporation with its headquarters in
Vancouver, Washington.  Mr. John Warta, a U.S. citizen, is the president and chief executive
officer of GST Telecommunications, Inc., and owns or controls approximately 10 percent of
its shares.  No other single person or entity controls ten percent or more of the applicant, and
U.S. citizens and companies own a majority of the shares of GST Telecommunications, Inc. 
Mr. Warta is also chairman and CEO of the applicant GST, which has three other officers, one
of whom is Canadian and the other two of whom are U.S. citizens.  GST would own the
entire cable system, including plant and equipment at all four landing points.

     3.  The cable system will consist of three segments:  Segment A, between Saipan and
Guam; Segment B, between Saipan and Tinian; and Segment C, between Rota and a
branching unit on Segment A.  The exact landing points have yet to be finalized.  The
applicant states that the landing points will be chosen to ensure secure submarine and land
routes and to facilitate connection to the CNMI and Guam intra-island systems, U.S. private
and interexchange systems, and international facilities.  GST states that the sites will conform
to plans approved by the governmental administrations with the appropriate jurisdiction.

     4.  The design of the Mariana-Guam Cable will be based upon the use of submarine
fiber optic technology employing the appropriate transmission rate necessary to meet what
GST anticipates will be the high capacity requirements of the users of the system.  GST
expects that the minimum system design will consist of twelve fibers operating at a
Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) rate, for each fiber, equivalent to 622 Mbps and
having a system capacity of 24,192 equivalent voice-grade channels.  The cable will ensure
system reliability through the deployment of the appropriate cable system design using state-
of-the-art technology.  GST states that, because of the short distances between the cable
segments, the Mariana-Guam Cable will not use repeaters.

     5.  GST states that the Mariana-Guam Cable will provide a vital, secure, high-quality
digital telecommunications link between Guam and the CNMI islands of Saipan, Tinian, and
Rota for existing and emerging communications requirements to entities that seek access to
the cable.  The existing analog microwave systems and satellite earth stations that carry traffic
between the Commonwealth islands and to points beyond are vulnerable to disruption due to
the high number of tropical storms and typhoons.  Submarine cables are not as susceptible to
such atmospheric disturbances.

     6.  GST states that it will sell or lease the capacity of the Mariana-Guam Cable on a
private carrier basis.  Specifically, the applicant states, it will make tailored and flexible
arrangements with customers that are not possible under the regime of a tailored service
offering; make long-term plans for the facilities with assurance regarding facility availability
and price; design systems to meet customer needs; develop new and innovative service
offerings; and offer bulk capacity to a specific class of eligible users.  Thus, the applicant
states, it "will not hold itself out indiferently to serve the public; rather, it will make
individualized decisions in particular cases whether and on what terms to deal."  GST argues
that it is therefore not required to apply for authority under Section 214 of the
Communications Act of 1934 because the cable system will not be common carrier in nature,
and it urges us to consider its application pursuant only to the Cable Landing License Act.

                             Comments

     7.  GST's application was placed on public notice on January 23, 1996.  Pursuant to
Section 1.767(b) of the Commission's rules, the Cable Landing License Act, and Executive
Order No. 10530, we informed the Department of State of GST's application.  The
Department of State, after coordinating with the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration and the Department of Defense, stated that it has no objection to the issuance
of the requested cable landing license.

     8.  The Guam Telephone Authority (GTA) filed comments, and the Governor of Guam
filed reply comments essentially supporting the comments of GTA.  GST and the government
of the CNMI filed oppositions to GTA's comments.  GTE Micronesian Telecommunications
Corporation (MTC) then filed an ex parte letter in response to the earlier filings.  Both GTA
and the Governor of Guam later withdrew their objections to the application.  Therefore, there
are no outstanding timely comments.

     9.  MTC's ex parte letter stated that it did not oppose the application but was
concerned about an apparent agreement between GST and the Governor's office of the CNMI
that would have given GST an exclusive right to a submerged lands lease in the CNMI for
three years.  MTC stated that the Commission should grant GST's application only on the
condition that GST maintain no agreements with the CNMI government that would provide
GST exclusive rights to land or operate a cable between Guam and CNMI.

                            Discussion

     10.  When GST's application was filed, GST and the Governor of CNMI had agreed to
a submerged-lands lease with a provision that the Commonwealth would not lease submerged
lands for a competing cable for the first three years of the GST cable's operation.  This
exclusivity arrangement was a subject of the comments filed by GTA and the Governor of
Guam, and it was the only objection stated in MTC's ex parte letter.  Since the application
was filed, the CNMI legislature has rejected GST's exclusive lease and has enacted legislation
making such rights-of-way available without need for a lease to anyone who meets certain
conditions.  Therefore, in light of the withdrawals of comments by GTA and the Governor of
Guam and the satisfaction of MTC's only concern, there does not appear to be any opposition
to a grant of this license.  We also need not decide whether such an exclusivity provision
would violate Section 253 of the Act.

     11.  GST requests a license under the Commission's private submarine cable policy to
promote competition in the provision of international transmission facilities.  Pursuant to this
policy, the Commission has authorized non common carrier cables where there is no legal
compulsion to serve the public indifferently and no reason implicit in the nature of the
operations to expect an indifferent holding-out to the eligible user public.

     12.  The CNMI is currently served by INTELSAT circuits and analog microwave
systems.  Because of the number of tropical storms and typhoons that strike the islands, these
existing systems are vulnerable to disruption and poor-quality transmission.  A submarine
cable would provide more-reliable, higher-quality service to those islands.

     13.  MTC, the only provider of intra- and inter-island communications services in
CNMI, has been granted a cable landing license and accompanying Section 214 authorization
to land and operate a common carrier cable between Guam and the islands of Saipan, Tinian,
and Rota.  We understand that MTC has recently secured a submerged-lands lease from the
CNMI government and is going ahead with plans to construct the cable.  The CNMI
government believes that, because GST is a relative newcomer to the Mariana-Guam region,
its construction and operation of a submarine cable would bring an added dimension of
competition to the region.

     14.  In light of MTC's planned common carrier cable and the status of competition in
the CNMI, we find that there is no public-interest reason to require that the Mariana-Guam
Cable be operated on a common carrier basis.  MTC's current satellite and microwave
facilities and its planned cable will provide sufficient intra- and inter-island common carrier
capacity, and we anticipate that GST's cable, operated on a non-tariffed, non common carrier
basis, will provide a competitive alternative for other carriers that could choose to provide
telecommunications services to the islands of the CNMI.

     15.  In addition, because GST will, in the operation of the cable, make "'individualized
decisions, in particular cases, whether and on what terms to deal' and does not intend to
undertake 'to carry for all people indifferently,'" there is no reason to expect that the
proposed cable's capacity will be held out to the public indifferently.  We therefore conclude
that GST will not offer capacity in the Mariana-Guam Cable to the public on a common
carrier basis and thus is not subject to regulation under Title II of the Communications Act.

     16.  Consistent with prior decisions, we find that GST's description of the landing
points of the Mariana-Guam Cable, which states that the cable system will land on Guam,
Rota, Saipan, and Tinian, is sufficient to determine whether the proposed cable system would
comply with the provisions of the Cable Landing License Act and Commission rules. 
Pursuant to Section 1.767(a)(5) of the Commission's rules, GST must provide a specific
description of the landing locations, including a map, no later than ninety days prior to
construction, and we condition this license upon final approval of the landing points.  The
Commission will give public notice of this description, and grant of the license will be
considered final unless we issue a public notice to the contrary no later than sixty days after
receipt of the specific description of the landing points.

     17.  Based on the information provided by GST and pursuant to the Commission's
procedures implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, we conclude that a
grant of the requested license would not significantly affect the environment.  Consequently,
GST is not required to submit an environmental assessment, and this application is
categorically excluded from environmental processing.

     18.  Accordingly, we conclude that U.S. interests under the Cable Landing License Act
will be served by grant of a cable landing license to GST, as conditioned below.

                         Ordering Clauses

     19.  Consistent with the foregoing and pursuant to the Cable Landing License Act and
Executive Order 10530, we hereby GRANT AND ISSUE to GST Telecom, Inc., a license to
land and operate a submarine fiber optic cable system (expected to consist of twelve fibers
operating at 622 Mbps for each fiber and having a system capacity of 24,192 equivalent
voice-grade channels) extending between the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
and the Territory of Guam, with landing points on Guam and the Commonwealth islands of
Saipan, Tinian, and Rota.  This grant is subject to all rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission; any treaties or conventions relating to communications to
which the United States is or may hereafter become a party; any action by the Commission or
the Congress of the United States rescinding, changing, modifying or amending any rights
accruing to any person hereunder; and the following conditions:

     (1)  The location of the cable system within the territorial waters of the United States
     of America, its territories and possessions, and upon its shore shall be in conformity
     with plans approved by the Secretary of the Army, and the cable shall be moved or
     shifted by the Licensee at its expense upon the request of the Secretary of the Army
     whenever he or she considers such course necessary in the public interest, for reasons
     of national defense, or for the maintenance or improvement of harbors for navigational
     purposes;

     (2)  The Licensee shall at all times comply with any requirements of United States
     government authorities regarding the location and concealment of the cable facilities,
     buildings, and apparatus for the purpose of protecting and safeguarding the cable from
     injury or destruction by enemies of the United States of America;

     (3)  The Licensee or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or under
     direct or indirect common control with it does not enjoy and shall not acquire any right
     to handle traffic to or from the United States, its territories, or its possessions unless
     such service be authorized by the Commission pursuant to section 214 of the
     Communications Act, as amended;

     (4)  The Licensee or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or under
     direct or indirect common control with it shall not acquire or enjoy any right for the
     purpose of handling or interchanging traffic to or from the United States, its territories,
     or its possessions to land, connect, or operate cables or landlines, to construct or
     operate radio stations, or to interchange traffic, that is denied to any other United
     States company by reason of any concession, contract, understanding, or working
     arrangement to which the Licensee or any persons controlling it, controlled by it, or
     under direct or indirect common control with it are parties;

     (5)  Neither this license nor the rights granted herein shall be transferred, assigned, or
     in any manner either voluntarily or involuntarily disposed of or disposed of indirectly
     by transfer of control of the Licensee to any persons, unless the Federal
     Communications Commission shall give prior consent in writing;

     (6)  The Licensee shall notify the Commission in writing of the precise locations at
     which the cable will land no later than ninety days prior to commencing construction
     of cable landing stations at those locations.  The Commission will give public notice of
     the filing of these descriptions, and grant of this license will be considered final unless
     the Commission issues a notice to the contrary no later than sixty days after receipt of
     the specific descriptions of landing points;

     (7)  The Commission reserves the right to require the Licensee to file an environmental
     assessment or environmental impact statement should it determine that the landing of
     the cable at those locations and construction of necessary cable landing stations would
     significantly affect the environment within the meaning of Section 1.1307 of the
     Commission's procedures implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of
     1969; this license is subject to modification by the Commission upon its review of any
     environmental assessment or environmental impact statement that it may require
     pursuant to its rules;

     (8)  The Licensee shall maintain no less than a 50-percent ownership interest and
     voting control share in the cable, including 100-percent ownership in the cable stations
     and in the land portion of the cable from the stations to the beach joint of the
     submerged portion of the cable;

     (9)  The Licensee shall, by application, obtain Commission approval prior to the sale
     or transfer to a foreign entity of five percent or more in the aggregate of direct or
     indirect ownership in the cable;

     (10)  This license is revocable by the Commission after due notice and opportunity for
     hearing pursuant to section 2 of "An Act Relating to the Landing and Operation of
     Submarine Cables in the United States," 47 U.S.C.  35, or for failure to comply with
     the terms of the authorizations;

     (11)  The Licensee shall notify the Commission in writing of the date on which the
     cable is placed in service, and this license shall expire 25 years from such date, unless
     renewed or extended upon proper application, and, upon expiration of this license, all
     rights granted under it shall be terminated; and

     (12)  The terms and conditions upon which this license is given shall be accepted by
     the Licensee by filing a letter with the Secretary, Federal Communications
     Commission, Washington, D.C. 20554, within 30 days of the release of the cable
     landing license.

     20.  This Order is issued under Section 0.261 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.
 0.261, and is effective upon release.  Petitions for reconsideration under Section 1.106 or
applications for review under Section 1.115 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.106,
1.115, may be filed within 30 days of the date of public notice of this order (see 47 C.F.R.
 1.4(b)(2)).

                              FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION




                              Diane Cornell
                              Chief, Telecommunications Division
                              International Bureau
