********************************************************    
                         NOTICE
********************************************************

This document was converted from
WordPerfect to ASCII Text format.

Content from the original version of the document such as
headers, footers, footnotes, endnotes, graphics, and page numbers
will not show up in this text version.

All text attributes such as bold, italic, underlining, etc. from the
original document will not show up in this text version.

Features of the original document layout such as
columns, tables, line and letter spacing, pagination, and margins
will not be preserved in the text version.

If you need the complete document, download the
WordPerfect version or Adobe Acrobat version, if available.

*****************************************************************
                            Before the
                Federal Communications Commission
                      Washington, D.C. 20554

In the Matter of                   )
                                   )
PAC LANDING CORP.                  )
                                   )
Application for a license to land and operate in the   )    File Nos. SCL-LIC-19981103-00022
United States a private fiber optic submarine cable    )           SCL-LPN-19990129-00001
system extending among the United States mainland,     )
Mexico, Panama, Venezuela and the U.S. Virgin     )
Islands.                           )

                      CABLE LANDING LICENSE

Adopted:  March 15, 1999                           Released:  March 18, 1999

By the Chief, Telecommunications Division:

                         I.  Introduction

     1.   In this Order, we grant the application of PAC Landing Corp. under the Cable Landing
License Act for authority to land and operate a private fiber optic submarine cable system to be called
"Pan American Crossing" or "PAC," extending among the U.S. mainland, Mexico, Panama, Venezuela and
the U.S. Virgin Islands.  This system will be operated on a non common carrier basis.  We find that PAC
Landing Corp. has provided sufficient information under our rules to comply with the Cable Landing
License Act and that it would serve the public interest to grant the cable landing license subject to the
conditions listed below. 

                        II.  Application 

     2.   PAC Landing Corp., a Delaware corporation, is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of
Pan American Crossing Ltd., a Bermuda company, which, through a series of intermediate holding
companies, is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Global Crossing Ltd., a Bermuda company which is
majority owned by U.S. interests.  PAC Landing Corp. will own the Grover Beach and St. Croix cable
station terminal equipment, and the U.S. territory portions of PAC from the landing stations to one-half
mile beyond the U.S. territorial limit.  

     3.   The proposed PAC system will connect: (1) Grover Beach, California; (2) Tijuana,
Mexico; (3) Mazatlan, Mexico; (4) Fort Amador, Panama; (5) Ambush Range, Panama;  (6) Puerto Viejo,
Venezuela; and (7) St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands.  PAC will be a state-of-the-art, optically amplified fiber
system, initially consisting of two operational optical fiber pairs in each of the undersea segments and a
single operational fiber pair in each of the two diverse terrestrial segments between Fort Amador and
Ambush Range.  The system will employ a self-healing, collapsed ring architecture, with wavelength
division multiplexing.  The wet plant design will initially support 10 gigabits per second (Gbps) of capacity
on each fiber pair between terminal stations for service.  Given the system's collapsed ring configuration,
transmission capacity will be 20 Gbps, upgradable to a minimum of 40 Gbps using dense wavelength
division multiplexing.  The Minimum Capacity Unit (MCU) will be an STM-1 (155 Mbps).  Additionally,
capacity may be made available for sale at the DS-3 level (45 Mbps).  The system will be capable of
supporting 128 STM-1 MCUs.

     4.   As shown in Exhibit A of the application that is attached to this order, PAC will consist of
nine segments:  Segment 1 will include the whole of the submarine cable system between and including
System Interface at the cable station at Grover Beach, California and Branching Unit 1.  Segment 2 will
include the whole of the submarine cable system between and including the Branching Unit 1 and the
System Interface at the cable station in Tijuana, Mexico.  Segment 3 will include the whole of the
submarine cable system between and including Branching Unit 1 and Branching Unit 2.  Segment 4 will
include the whole of the submarine cable system between and including Branching Unit 2 and the System
Interface at the cable station in Mazatlan, Mexico.  Segment 5 will include the whole of the submarine
cable system provided between and including Branching Unit 2 and the System Interface at the cable
station in Fort Amador, Panama, as well a Branching Unit 3, which will allow for a potential additional
landing or interconnection.  Segments 6A and 6B will include the whole of the submarine cable system
between and including the System Interface at the cable station in Fort Amador, Panama and the cable
station in Ambush Range, Panama.  Segment 7 will include the whole of the submarine cable system
provided between and including the cable station in Ambush Ridge, Panama and Branching Unit 4. 
Segment 8 will include the whole of the submarine cable system between and including Branching Unit 4
and the System Interface at the cable station in Puerto Viejo, Venezuela.  Segment 9 will include the whole
of the submarine cable system provided between and including Branching Unit 4 and the System Interface
at the cable station in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands. Operation of the PAC system is anticipated to begin
in February, 2000.

                          III.  Comments

     5.   The application was placed on public notice on November 13, 1998.  Tyco Submarine
Systems Ltd. (Tyco) filed comments in support of the application.  We received no other comments. 
Pursuant to Section 1.767(b) of the Commission's rules, the Cable Landing License Act, and Executive
Order No. 10530, we informed the Department of State of the application.  The Department of State, after
coordinating with the National Telecommunications and Information Administration and the Department of
Defense, stated that it has no objection to issuance of the cable landing license.

                         IV.  Discussion

     A.   Private Submarine Cable Policy

     6.   PAC Landing Corp. proposes to operate PAC as a non common carrier system in which
capacity will not be offered indifferently to the user public.  PAC Landing Corp. requests a license under
the Commission's private submarine cable policy, which is intended to promote competition in the provision
of international transmission facilities.  Pursuant to this policy, the Commission has authorized
non common carrier cables where: (1) there is no legal compulsion to serve the public indifferently; and (2)
there are no reasons implicit in the nature of the operations to expect that the applicant would make
capacity available to the public indifferently and indiscriminately.

     7.   In applying the first prong of the test to submarine cable authorizations, the Commission
has stated that there will be no legal compulsion to serve the public indifferently where there is no public
interest reason to require facilities to be offered on a common carrier basis.  This public interest analysis
has generally focused on whether an applicant will be able to exercise market power because of the lack of
alternative facilities.  Where there are sufficient alternatives, the Commission has found that the licensee
will lack market power and will not be able to charge monopoly rates for cable capacity.  The Commission
has found that, in those circumstances, the public interest would be served by allowing a submarine cable
to be offered on a non-common carrier basis.

     8.   No one has suggested that the public interest requires PAC to be operated on a common
carrier basis.  PAC is not affiliated with any foreign carriers on the foreign ends of the cable system and
therefore does not control any bottleneck facilities in the markets PAC proposes to serve.  No commenter
has disputed this fact, and we find that, in light of all the circumstances, it would not serve the public
interest to impose common carrier regulation on the operations of PAC at this time.  We note, however,
that we retain the authority to impose common carrier or common-carrier-like obligations on the operations
of this or any other submarine cable system if the public interest so requires.  Furthermore, we have
always maintained the authority to classify facilities as common carrier facilities subject to Title II of the
Communications Act if the public interest requires that the facilities be offered to the public indifferently.

     9.   Regarding the second prong of the test, we conclude that there is no reason to expect that
capacity in the proposed cable system would be held out to the public indifferently.  PAC Landing Corp.
states that capacity will not be sold indifferently to the user public.  Instead, capacity will be assigned
pursuant to individualized decisions, and bulk capacity will be offered to a specific class of eligible users. 
Users of bulk capacity will be able to obtain capacity on the system on the basis of indefeasible rights of
user (IRUs).  We therefore conclude that PAC Landing Corp. will operate PAC on a non-common carrier
basis. 

     10.  We conclude that PAC Landing Corp. will not offer capacity in PAC to the public on a
common carrier basis and that the public interest does not require that they do so.  Accordingly, we
conclude that it is appropriate to license PAC on a non-common carrier basis.  We also find that the
applicant will not provide a telecommunications service for a fee to such class of users as to be "effectively
available directly to the public" and thus will not be "telecommunications carriers" under the 1996 Act.  

     B.   Ownership and Landing Points

     11.  PAC Landing Corp. has provided the ownership information required by Section
63.18(e)(6), 1.767(a)(6), and Section 63.18(h) of the Commission's rules.  PAC Landing Corp. is
ultimately controlled by Global Crossing Ltd..  PAC Landing Corp. will lease space in the building that
houses the Grover Beach cable station, and will lease or own the building that houses the St. Croix cable
station.  PAC Landing Corp. will own the Grover Beach and St. Croix cable station terminal equipment,
and the U.S. territory portions of PAC from the landing stations to the points that are one-half mile beyond
the U.S. territorial limit.  Wholly owned subsidiaries of Pan American Crossing Ltd. will own or lease
space in the Panama and Venezuela landing stations and will own the Panama and Venezuela cable station
terminal equipment, and the Panama and Venezuela territory portions of PAC from the landing stations to
the points that are one-half mile beyond the Panama and Venezuela territorial limits.  A Mexican entity,
owned 49 percent by Pan American Crossing Ltd., will lease space in the Mexican landing stations and will
own all Mexican territory PAC assets that it is required to own under the terms of its license.  The
buildings which will house the Mexican landing stations and the remaining Mexican-territory portions of
PAC not owned by the Mexican licensee will be owned by a wholly owned subsidiary of Pan American
Crossing Ltd.  Pan American Crossing Ltd. will own, directly or indirectly, the remaining portions of PAC. 


     12.  The applicant states that during the pendency of the application, it will become affiliated
within the meaning of Section 63.18(h)(1)(A) of the Commission's rules with  a Japanese foreign carrier,
Global Access Ltd., through Global Crossing Ltd.'s proposed minority investment in Global Access Ltd. 
Global Access Ltd. is a start-up venture that was recently granted a Japanese Type-1 Telecommunications
License.  Because the proposed cable does not land in Japan we find that this affiliation does not affect
grant of the Cable Landing License.

     13.  PAC Landing Corp. has complied with Section 1.767(a)(5) of the Commission's rules by
providing specific information on the cable landing locations:  Grover Beach, California; Tijuana, Mexico;
Mazatlan, Mexico; Fort Amador, Panama; Ambush Range, Panama; Puerto Viejo, Venezuela; and St.
Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands.  This license is therefore not subject to any further public notice or
Commission approval of the cable system's landing points pursuant to the procedure in Section 1.767(a)(5)
of the Commission's rules.

     C.   Environmental Impact

     14.  Based on the information provided by the applicant and pursuant to the Commission's
procedures implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, we find that action on the
present application would not significantly affect the environment according to Section 1.1307(a) or (b) of
the Commission's rules.  Therefore, pursuant to Section 1.1306 of the Commission's rules, we conclude
that grant of the requested license would not significantly affect the environment.  Consequently, PAC
Landing Corp. is not required to submit an environmental assessment, and this application is categorically
excluded from environmental processing.

                          V.  Conclusion

     15.  We grant PAC Landing Corp.'s application for authority to land and operate a non-
common carrier fiber optic submarine cable extending among the United States mainland, Mexico,
Panama, Venezuela and the U.S. Virgin Islands,  subject to the conditions listed below.

                      VI.  Ordering Clauses 

     16.  Consistent with the foregoing and pursuant to the Cable Landing License Act and
Executive Order 10530, we hereby GRANT AND ISSUE PAC Landing Corp. a license to land and
operate a non common carrier fiber optic cable system  (consisting of two optical fiber pairs, with 20 Gbps
capacity upon completion, and upgradeable to 40 Gbps) extending among the United States mainland,
Mexico, Panama, Venezuela and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  This grant is subject to all rules and regulations
of the Federal Communications Commission (Commission); any treaties or conventions relating to
communications to which the United States is or may hereafter become a party; any action by the
Commission or the Congress of the United States rescinding, changing, modifying, or amending any rights
accruing to any person hereunder; and the following conditions:

          (1)  The location of the cable system within the territorial waters of the United States, its territories
     and possessions, and upon its shore shall be in conformity with plans approved by the Secretary of
     the Army, and the cable shall be moved or shifted by the Licensee at its expense upon the request
     of the Secretary of the Army whenever he or she considers such course necessary in the public
     interest, for reasons of national defense, or for the maintenance or improvement of harbors for
     navigational purposes;

          (2)  The Licensee shall at all times comply with any requirements of U.S. government authorities
     regarding the location and concealment of the cable facilities, buildings, and apparatus for the
     purpose of protecting and safeguarding the cable from injury or destruction by enemies of the
     United States;

          (3)  The Licensee or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or under direct or
     indirect common control with it do not enjoy and shall not acquire any right to handle traffic on a
     common carrier basis to or from the United States, its territories, or its possessions unless such
     service be authorized by the Commission pursuant to Section 214 of the Communications Act, as
     amended;

          (4)  The Licensee or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or under direct or
     indirect common control with it shall not acquire or enjoy any right for the purpose of handling or
     interchanging traffic to or from the United States, its territories, or its possessions to land, connect,
     or operate cables or land lines, to construct or operate radio stations, or to interchange traffic, that
     is denied to any other United States company by reason of any concession, contract, understanding,
     or working arrangement to which the Licensee or any persons controlling it, controlled by it, or
     under direct or indirect common control with it are parties;

          (5)  Neither this license nor the rights granted herein shall be transferred, assigned, or in any
     manner either voluntarily or involuntarily disposed of or disposed of indirectly by transfer of
     control of the Licensee to any persons, unless the Commission shall give prior consent in writing;

          (6)  Pursuant to Section 2 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  35; Executive Order No.
     10530, as amended; and Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C.
      214, the Commission reserves the right to impose additional common carrier or common-carrier-
     like regulation on the operations of the cable system if it finds that the public interest so requires;  

          (7)  The Commission reserves the right to require the Licensee to file an environmental assessment
     or environmental impact statement should it determine that the landing of the cable at those
     locations and construction of necessary cable landing stations would significantly affect the
     environment within the meaning of Section 1.1307 of the Commission's procedures implementing
     the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; this license is subject to modification by the
     Commission upon its review of any environmental assessment or environmental impact statement
     that it may require pursuant to its rules;

          (8)  The Licensees shall maintain de jure and de facto control of the U.S. portion of the cable
     system, including the cable landing stations in the United States, sufficient to comply with the
     requirements of this license;  

          (9)  This license is revocable by the Commission after due notice and opportunity for hearing
     pursuant to Section 2 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  35, or for failure to comply
     with the terms of the authorizations;

          (10)  The Licensee shall notify the Commission in writing of the date on which the cable is placed
     in service, and this license shall expire 25 years from such date, unless renewed or extended upon
     proper application, and, upon expiration of this license, all rights granted under it shall be
     terminated; and

          (11)  The terms and conditions upon which this license is given shall be accepted by the Licensee
     by filing a letter with the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C.
     20554, within 30 days of the release of the cable landing license.

     17.  This Order is issued under Section 0.261 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  0.261,
and is effective upon adoption.  Petitions for reconsideration under Section 1.106 or applications for review
under Section 1.115 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.106, 1.115, may be filed within 30 days of
the date of public notice of this order (see 47 C.F.R.  1.4(b)(2)).


                              FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 



                              Rebecca Arbogast
                              Chief, Telecommunications Division
                              International Bureau