                            Before the
                Federal Communications Commission
                      Washington, D.C. 20554

In the Matter of
                                   )
SSI ATLANTIC CROSSING LLC               )
and                                )
GT LANDING CORP.                        )
                                   )
Application for authority to assign                    )    File No. SCL-ASG-19981207-00028
the Cable Landing License for the  )
Atlantic Crossing Cable System     )

                    ORDER  AND AUTHORIZATION


   Adopted: June 29, 1999               Released:  June 30, 1999

By the Chief, Telecommunications Division:

          1.   SSI Atlantic Crossing LLC (SSI Atlantic Crossing) and GT Landing Corp. (GT
Landing), pursuant to the Cable Landing License Act and Executive Order No. 10530 submitted the
above-captioned application requesting authority to assign the Cable Landing License for the Atlantic
Crossing Cable System (AC-1) from SSI Atlantic Crossing to GT Landing.  The application was placed
on public notice on December 23, 1998 (Report No. TEL-00047NS).  We received no comments.

          2.   GT Landing, a Delaware corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Atlantic
Crossing Ltd. (ACL), a Bermuda company which, through a series of intermediate holding companies, is
an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Global Crossing Ltd. (Global Crossing).  ACL was formed to
construct and operate AC-1.  Prior to construction, ACL entered into a contract with Tyco Submarine
Systems Ltd. (TSSL), the indirect parent of SSI Atlantic Crossing, for the development, design,
construction, and installation of AC-1.  Under that contract, as segments of the system were constructed,
became ready for service, and accepted by ACL, the ownership of the segment assets, with the exception of
the U.S. portion of the system, transferred to ACL and its subsidiaries.  Thus, ACL owns the portions of
AC-1 from the landing stations in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Germany to one-half mile
beyond the territorial limits of those countries.  On the other hand, SSI Atlantic Crossing owns the
corresponding portion of AC-1 within the United States. GT Landing, however, owns the land and the
building which house the Brookhaven cable station.  SSI Atlantic Crossing leases space in that building and
owns all cable station terminal equipment at the U.S. landing.  GT Landing now seeks to exercise a
purchase option that allows it to acquire title to the U.S. portion of AC-1 from SSI Atlantic Crossing, in
order to integrate ownership of the U.S. segment of AC-1 into ACL.  GT Landing proposes to acquire
ownership of all plant and equipment at the U.S. landing and the U.S. territory portions of AC-1 from the
landing station to the points that are one-half mile beyond the U.S. territorial limits.

          3.   As required by Section 1.767(a)(6) of the Commission's rules, SSI Atlantic
Crossing and GT Landing have listed their ownership information, including foreign affiliations. Based on
their application, the foreign affiliates of GT Landing do not raise concerns that warrant denial of the
application under the Cable Landing License Act. GT Landing states that because it is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Global Crossing, Ltd., it is affiliated with several overseas start-up companies owned by
Global Crossing which are constructing a terrestrial fiber optic network in Europe, Pan European Crossing
(PEC).  GT Landing also is affiliated with the landing parties for the AC-1 Cable because all of them are
indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of Global Crossing.  Finally, GT Landing is affiliated with a Japanese
start-up company, Global Access Ltd., which has recently been granted a Japanese Type-1
telecommunications license.  Thus, GT Landing is affiliated with foreign carriers in the following countries: 
Switzerland, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Ireland,
and Japan.  In addition, GT Landing will soon become affiliated with a foreign carrier in Austria.  Because
all of GT Landings' affiliates in the destination countries of the AC-1 Cable are start-up companies with no
market power, we find that these affiliations do not affect the grant of the instant application. 

          4.   Pursuant to Section 1.767(b) of the Commission's Rules, the Cable Landing
License Act, and Executive Order No. 10530, we informed the Department of State of the application. 
The Department of State, after coordinating with the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration and the Department of Defense, stated that it has no objection to the proposed assignment
of license.

          5.   Upon consideration of the application and in view of the foregoing, we conclude
that this assignment does not raise any of the concerns listed in the Cable Landing License Act,  and that
consent to assignment of the AC-1 Cable Landing License from SSI Atlantic Crossing to GT Landing will
serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. 

          6.   Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that the application of SSI Atlantic Crossing and
GT landing, File No. SCL-ASG-19981207-00028 IS GRANTED, and the assignment of the AC-1 Cable
Landing License from SSI Atlantic Crossing to GT Landing is authorized.  Applicants are required to
notify the Commission within 30 days of the consummation of this assignment.

          7.   IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that all terms and conditions imposed in the original
License, Order on Reconsideration and the Modification to the License (see note 3) granted to SSI Atlantic
Crossing remain in effect.

          8.    This Order is issued under Section 0.261 of the Commission's Rules, 
47 C.F.R.  0.261, and is effective upon adoption.  Petitions for reconsideration under Section 1.106 or
applications for review under Section 1.115 of the Commission's Rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.106, 1.115, may be
filed within 30 days of the date of public notice of this Order (see 47 C.F.R. Section 1.4(b)(2)).

                              FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION



                              Rebecca Arbogast
                              Chief, Telecommunications Division
                              International Bureau
                                 
