  ********************************************************    
                                         NOTICE
    ********************************************************
                                
                This document was converted from
           WordPerfect or Word to ASCII Text format.
                                
   Content from the original version of the document such as
headers, footers, footnotes, endnotes, graphics, and page numbers
             will not show up in this text version.
                                
All text attributes such as bold, italic, underlining, etc. from the
    original document will not show up in this text version.
                                
        Features of the original document layout such as
columns, tables, line and letter spacing, pagination, and margins
           will not be preserved in the text version.
                                
        If you need the complete document, download the
  WordPerfect version or Adobe Acrobat version, if available.
                                
*****************************************************************
                                                           Before the
               Federal Communications Commission
                     Washington, D.C. 20554
  
In the Matter of                             )
                                   )
                                   )
ATLANTICA USA LLC                  )
                                   )
                                   )    File No.  SCL-LIC-19990602-00010
Application For a License to Land and Operate          )
in the United States a Private Fiber Optic        )    
Submarine Cable System Extending Between          )
The United States, Venezuela, Brazil              )
and Bermuda (The Atlantica-1 Network)        )   
   
   
                     CABLE LANDING LICENSE
   

     Adopted:  December 10, 1999                           Released:  December 10, 1999
   

By the Chief, Telecommunications Division:
   
                        I.  Introduction
   
     1.   In this Order, we grant the application of Atlantica USA LLC (Atlantica) under the Cable
Landing License Act for authority to land and operate a private fiber optic submarine cable system to be
called "Atlantica-1," extending between the United States, Venezuela, Brazil and Bermuda. Atlantica
states that the system will be operated on a non common carrier basis, consistent with the Commission's
longstanding private submarine cable policy.  For the reasons discussed below, we find that Atlantica has
provided sufficient information under our rules to comply with the Cable Landing License Act and that it
would serve the public interest to grant the cable landing license subject to the conditions listed below.
   
                         II.Application
   
     2.   On June 2, 1999, Atlantica filed its application for authority under the Cable Landing
License Act to land and operate the "Atlantica-1" cable.  The Application states that Atlantica is wholly-
owned by Atlantica Network (Bermuda) Ltd. (Atlantica Network Bermuda), a Bermuda company which, in
turn, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of GlobeNet Communications Group Limited (GlobeNet).  The
Application states that GlobeNet is incorporated as an exempt company under the laws of Bermuda and is
majority owned and controlled by Canadian interests.  GlobeNet also owns TeleBermuda International
Limited (TBI) which, along with its subsidiary TeleBermuda International LLC (TBI LLC), owns and
operates the BUS-1 cable extending between Tuckerton, New Jersey, and Bermuda.

     3.   The International Bureau placed the application on public notice on June 18, 1999.  On
July 22, 1999, Atlantica filed an Amendment to its application disclosing that, on July 14, 1999, Atlantic's
parent company, GlobeNet, completed an equity and debt financing to provide all of the funding necessary
to implement the Atlantica-1 cable.  The Amendment attaches revised ownership information on Atlantica,
to replace the ownership information attached to the original application.  The amendment reflects the fact
that two U.S. companies now hold interests in GlobeNet, along with a Canadian interest.
   
     4.   According to the Application, the proposed Atlantica-1 Network will be composed of a
fiber optic cable network in a self-healing ring configuration with landing points at the following locations:
Tuckerton, New Jersey; Boca Raton, Florida; Punta Gorda, Venezuela; Fortaleza, Brazil; Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil; and St. David's, Bermuda.  Atlantica states that the Atlantica-1 Network is designed as two
interconnected rings, with the Primary Ring to connect Tuckerton, Boca Raton, Punta Gorda, Fortaleza,
and Bermuda, and the Rio Ring to connect Fortaleza and Rio de Janeiro.  The Application states that
Atlantica-1 will be built using advanced fiber optic cable technology combined with dense wavelength
division multiplexing (DWDM) channel technology and is designed as a self-healing ring to provide 640
Gbps (4096 STM-1s) of fully-restored service capacity, or 1.28 Tbps of total capacity over four fiber
pairs.  According to the Application, the system will initially operate at 20 Gbps (128 STM-1s) of fully-
restored capacity and will be upgraded incrementally according to demand. 
   
     5.   The Application states that the Atlantica-1 Network will provide direct connectivity
between the United States, Bermuda, Venezuela, and Brazil, with the following segments: (1) Segment 1
between Tuckerton, New Jersey and Boca Raton, Florida; (2) Segment 2 between Boca Raton, Florida and
Punta Gorda, Venezuela; (3) Segment 3 between Punta Gorda, Venezuela and Fortaleza, Brazil;
(4) Segment 4 between Fortaleza, Brazil and St. David's, Bermuda; (5) Segment 5 between St. David's
Bermuda and Tuckerton, New Jersey (currently the BUS-1 cable); and (6) Segments 6 and 7 between
Fortaleza, Brazil and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
   
                         III.  Comments
   
     6.   As noted above, the International Bureau issued a public notice of the Atlantica-1 private
submarine cable application on June 18, 1999.  We received no comments on the application.  Pursuant to
Section 1.767(b) of the Commission's rules, the Cable Landing License Act, and Executive Order No.
10530, we informed the Department of State of the application and the amendment.  On December 7,
the Department of State, after consulting with the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration (NTIA) and the Department of Defense, advised the Commission that that it has no
objection to issuance of the cable landing license.                        IV.  Discussion
     

     A.        Private Submarine Cable Policy

     7.   Atlantica states that the Atlantica-1 Network will be operated on a non common basis
consistent with the Commission's longstanding private submarine cable policy, and that, as a non-common
carrier system, capacity on the Atlantica-1 Network will be sold in bulk on an indefeasible right of use or
lease basis, and capacity will not be sold indifferently to the user public.  Atlantica requests a license
under the Commission's private submarine cable policy, which is intended to promote
competition in the provision of international transmission facilities.  Pursuant to this policy, the
Commission has authorized non common carrier cables where: (1) there is no legal compulsion to serve the
public indifferently; and (2) there are no reasons implicit in the nature of the operations to expect an
indifferent holding-out to the eligible user public.
   
     8.   In applying the first prong of the test to submarine cable authorizations, the Commission
has stated that there will be no legal compulsion to serve the public indifferently where there is no public
interest reason to require facilities to be offered on a common carrier basis.  This public interest analysis
has generally focused on whether an applicant will be able to exercise market power because of the lack of
alternative facilities.  Where there are sufficient alternatives, the Commission has found that the licensee
will lack market power and will not be able to charge monopoly rates for cable capacity.  The Commission
has found that, in those circumstances, the public interest would be served by allowing a submarine cable
to be offered on a non-common carrier basis.
     
     9.   No one has suggested that the public interest requires Atlantica-1 to be operated on a
common carrier basis.  Atlantica is a foreign carrier incorporated in Bermuda and is affiliated with TBI, a
foreign carrier in Bermuda, one of the destination countries for Atlantica-1.  The Application states that
TBI is licensed in Bermuda to provide international telecommunications between Bermuda and foreign
points, but that it is not licensed to provide local or domestic service in Bermuda.  The Application states
that, although TBI is a licensed carrier in Bermuda, it lacks sufficient market power in Bermuda to affect
competition adversely in the U.S. market.  Specifically, the Application states that TBI lacks 50 percent
market share in the international transport and the local access markets in Bermuda, and, therefore that TBI
is presumptively classified as nondominant.  Atlantica has certified that it does not have an affiliation
with any other foreign carrier other than TBI.

     10.  We agree with Atlantica that, given TBI's lack of market power, TBI is presumptively
classified as nondominant under the Commission's rules, and we have previously held so.  Moreover,
Atlantica is not affiliated with any foreign carrier other than TBI.

     11.  In addition, we note that Atlantica asserts that there are sufficient existing and planned
facilities on the routes to prevent it from exercising market power in offering services to the public. 
Atlantica asserts that there are a number of existing and planned common carrier and private cable systems
in this region, including the following cables extending to Venezuela and to Brazil: 
(1) Americas I; (2) ARCOS;  (3) Americas II;  (4) South American Crossing (SAC); and (5) South
American-1 (SAM-1).

     12.  The Application also mentions the Project Oxygen cable,  extending to all three
destinations for the proposed Atlantica cable (Bermuda, Venezuela, and Brazil).  While the Application
does not list the landing points for the Project Oxygen cable, this information is available in an Order,
released March 15, 1999, in which the International Bureau's Telecommunications Division granted Project
Oxygen (USA) LLC (O sub2 (USA)) authority under the Cable Landing License Act to land and operate a
private fiber optic submarine cable system extending between the United States and various international
points including Brazil, Venezuela, and Bermuda.  In addition, other cables serving Bermuda include: (1)
the Atlantic Express II cable system, a digital fiber optic submarine cable system authorized by the
Commission to operate on a private carrier basis between the U.S., Bermuda, and the UK (with no
Commission record of any construction yet); (2) the "Bermuda branch" of CANUS-1, extending from a
CANUS-1 branching unit in the Atlantic Ocean to a landing point in Bermuda, which provides services
between the United States, Bermuda, and Canada  (the CANUS-1 cable is currently in service on a
private carrier basis); (3) a spur of the Private Transatlantic Cable System (PTAT-1, a Commission-
authorized private cable in service since 1989); and (4) the Caribbean Atlantic Cable System (CARAC, a
Commission-authorized common carrier cable in service since 1989).  We note that the BUS-1 cable, a
private cable currently selling capacity, also extends to Bermuda but is owned and operated by TBI and
TBI LLC, affiliates of the Applicant.

     13.  Given Atlantica's ownership structure, and the unopposed evidence regarding alternative
facilities, we conclude that Atlantica will not be able to exercise market power in offering services to the
public.  Accordingly, we find that it would not serve the public interest to impose common carrier
regulation on the operations of Atlantica-1 at this time.  We note, however, that we always have the ability
to impose common carrier or common-carrier-like obligations on the operations of this or any other
submarine cable system if the public interest so requires.  Furthermore, we have always maintained the
authority to classify facilities as common carrier facilities subject to Title II of the Communications Act if
the public interest requires that the facilities be offered to the public indifferently.
   
     14.  Regarding the second prong of the test, we conclude that there is no reason to expect that
capacity in the proposed cable system would be held out to the public indifferently.  As noted above,
Atlantica states that capacity will not be sold indifferently to the user public.  We find that Atlantica will
not offer capacity in Atlantica-1 to the public on a common carrier basis and that the public interest does
not require that they do so.  Accordingly, we conclude that it is appropriate to license Atlantica-1 on a non-
common carrier basis.  We also find that Atlantica will not provide a telecommunications service for a fee
to such a class of users as to be "effectively available directly to the public" and thus will not be a
"telecommunications carrier" under the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
     
     B.   Ownership and Landing Points
   
     15.  Atlantica has provided the ownership information required by sections  1.767(a)(6),
63.18(e)(6), and 63.18(h) of the Commission's rules.  The Application states that the U.S. portion of the
Atlantica-1 Network will consist of the landing stations at Tuckerton, New Jersey, and Boca Raton,
Florida, as well as the portion of the cable from these landing stations to the limit of U.S. territorial
waters.  The Application states further that Applicant's affiliate, TBI LLC, currently leases space in the
Tuckerton, New Jersey cable landing station for operation of the BUS-1 Cable, and that Applicant will
either expand that lease to serve as a landing station for Segment 1 as well as Segment 5, or will construct
a new landing station in Tuckerton.  The Application also states that Applicant will build a cable station
in Boca Raton, Florida, and that Applicant and TBI LLC will own all terminal equipment in these two
landing stations and the portion of the cable from these landing stations to the limit of U.S. territorial
waters.  According to Applicant, Atlantica Network Bermuda, the Applicant's parent, will own the
international portion of the cable, except with respect to Segment 5, which will continue to be owned by
TBI and TBI LLC.  The Application states that the cable landing stations in Venezuela and Brazil, and
the portion of the cable in the territorial waters of those countries will be owned either by Atlantica
Network Bermuda or its wholly-owned subsidiaries in those countries.  The Application also states that
TBI will continue to lease the cable landing station in St. David's, Bermuda, will lease additional space in
Bermuda, and will continue to own the portion of the cable in Bermudian territorial waters.

     16.  The Application states that Atlantica-1 will land at Tuckerton, New Jersey; Boca Raton,
Florida; Punta Gorda, Venezuela; Fortaleza, Brazil; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and St. David's, Bermuda.
We find the applicant's description of the likely landing points to be sufficient to determine that the
proposed cable system will comply with the provisions of the Cable Landing License Act and Commission
rules.  Section 1.767(a) of the Commission's rules permits applicants in an initial application to provide a
general description of the landing points.  Under Section 1.767(a)(5), an applicant must file a specific
description of the landing points, including a map, no later than 90 days prior to construction at that
landing point.  The Commission will give public notice of the filing of the specific description, and grant
of the license will be considered final with respect to that landing point unless the Commission notifies the
applicant to the contrary no later than 60 days after receipt of the specific description of the landing
points.
   
     C.   Environmental Impact
   
     17.  The Commission has found that the construction of new submarine cable systems,
individually and cumulatively, will not have a significant effect on the environment and therefore should be
expressly excluded from our procedures implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. 
Therefore, the Applicant is not required to submit an environmental assessment, and this application is
categorically excluded from environmental processing.   

                         V.  Conclusion

     18.  We grant Atlantica's application for authority to land and operate a non-common carrier
fiber optic submarine cable extending between the United States, Venezuela, Brazil and Bermuda, subject
to the conditions listed below. 
     
                     VI.  Ordering Clauses
   
     19.  Consistent with the foregoing, we hereby GRANT AND ISSUE Atlantica USA LLC
(Applicant) a license to land and operate a non common carrier fiber optic submarine cable system using
advanced fiber optic cable technology combined with dense wavelength division multiplexing channel
technology, and designed as a self-healing ring to provide 640 Gbps (4096 STM-1s) of fully-restored
service capacity, or 1.28 Tbps of total capacity over four fiber pairs (and to initially operate at 20 Gbps,
128 STM-1s, of fully-restored capacity and to be upgraded incrementally according to demand) extending
between landing points at cable stations in Tuckerton, New Jersey; Boca Raton, Florida; Punta Gorda,
Venezuela; Fortaleza, Brazil; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and St. David's, Bermuda, under the provisions of the
Cable Landing License Act and Executive Order No. 10530.  This grant is subject to all rules and
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (Commission); any treaties or conventions relating
to communications to which the United States is or may hereafter become a party; any action by the
Commission or the Congress of the United States rescinding, changing, modifying or amending any rights
accruing to any person hereunder; and the following conditions: 

     (1)       The location of the cable system within the territorial waters of the United States, its
territories and possessions, and upon its shore shall be in conformity with plans approved by the Secretary
of the Army, and the cable shall be moved or shifted by the Applicant at its expense upon the request of the
Secretary of the Army whenever he or she considers such course necessary in the public interest, for
reasons of national defense, or for the maintenance or improvement of harbors for navigational purposes;
     
     (2)  The Applicant shall at all times comply with any requirements of U.S. government
authorities regarding the location and concealment of the cable facilities, buildings, and apparatus for the
purpose of protecting and safeguarding the cable from injury or destruction by enemies of the United
States;

     (3)  The Applicant or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or under direct
or indirect common control with it do not enjoy and shall not acquire any right to handle traffic on a
common carrier basis to or from the United States, its territories, or its possessions unless such service be
authorized by the Commission pursuant to Section 214 of the Communications Act, as amended;
     
     (4)       The Applicant or any persons or companies controlling it, controlled by it, or under direct
or indirect common control with it shall not acquire or enjoy any right to land, connect, or operate
submarine cables that is denied to any other United States company by reason of any concession, contract,
understanding, or working arrangement to which the Applicant or any persons controlling it, controlled by
it, or under direct or indirect common control with it are parties;
     
     (5)       Neither this license nor the rights granted herein shall be transferred, assigned, or in any
manner either voluntarily or involuntarily disposed of or disposed of indirectly by transfer of control of the
Applicant to any persons, unless the Federal Communications Commission shall give prior consent in
writing;

     (6)       The Applicant shall notify the Commission in writing of the precise locations at which the
cable will land.  Such notification with respect to any given landing location shall occur no later than ninety
days prior to commencing construction at that landing location.  The Commission will give public notice of
the filing of each description, and grant of this license will be considered final with respect to that landing
location unless the Commission issues a notice to the contrary no later than sixty days after receipt of the
specific description;

     (7)       The Commission reserves the right to require the Applicant to file an environmental
assessment or environmental impact statement should it determine that the landing of the cable at those
locations and construction of necessary cable landing stations would significantly affect the environment
within the meaning of Section 1.1307 of the Commission's procedures implementing the National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969; this license is subject to modification by the Commission upon its
review of any environmental assessment or environmental impact statement that it may require pursuant to
its rules;

     (8)       Pursuant to Section 2 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  35; Executive Order
No. 10530, as amended; and Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C.
 214, the Commission reserves the right to impose common carrier regulation or other regulation
consistent with the Cable Landing License Act on the operations of the cable system if it finds that the
public interest so requires;

     (9)  The Applicant shall maintain de jure and de facto control of the U.S. portion of the cable
system, including the cable landing stations in the United States, sufficient to comply with the requirements
of this license;  

     (10)      This license is revocable by the Commission after due notice and opportunity for hearing
pursuant to Section 2 of  "An Act Relating to the Landing and Operation of Submarine Cables in the
United States," 47 U.S.C.  35, or for failure to comply with the terms of the authorizations;
     
     (11)      The Applicant shall notify the Commission in writing of the date on which the cable is
placed in service, and this license shall expire 25 years from such date, unless renewed or extended upon
proper application, and, upon expiration of this license, all rights granted under it shall be terminated; and
   
     (12) The terms and conditions upon which this license is given shall be accepted by the
Applicant by filing a letter with the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C.
20554, within 30 days of the release of the cable landing license.
   
     20.  This Order is issued under Section 0.261 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  0.261,
and is effective upon release.  Petitions for reconsideration under Section 1.106 of the Commission's rules,
or applications for review under Section 1.115 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.106, 1.115, may
be filed within 30 days of the date of public notice of this order (see 47 C.F.R.  1.4(b)(2)).





   
   
                              FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 
   
   
   
                              Rebecca Arbogast
                              Chief, Telecommunications Division
                              International Bureau