********************************************************    
                         NOTICE
********************************************************

This document was converted from
WordPerfect to ASCII Text format.

Content from the original version of the document such as
headers, footers, footnotes, endnotes, graphics, and page numbers
will not show up in this text version.

All text attributes such as bold, italic, underlining, etc. from the
original document will not show up in this text version.

Features of the original document layout such as
columns, tables, line and letter spacing, pagination, and margins
will not be preserved in the text version.

If you need the complete document, download the
WordPerfect version or Adobe Acrobat version, if available.

*****************************************************************
                            Before the
                Federal Communications Commission
                      Washington, D.C. 20554

In the Matter of                   )
                                   )
AT&T CORP.                              )
BELLSOUTH INTERNATIONAL, INC.      )
CABLE & WIRELESS USA, INC.              )
CABLE & WIRELESS GLOBAL NETWORKS LTD.   )
GTE INTELLIGENT NETWORK SERVICES        )
   INC.                            )
IXC COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, INC.       )
KDD AMERICA, INC.                  )
MCI WORLDCOM, INC.                 )
PACIFIC GATEWAY EXCHANGE           )
   (BERMUDA) LIMITED                    )
RSL COM U.S.A., INC.                    )
SPRINT COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY, L.P.     )
STAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS, INC.      )    File No. SCL-LIC-19990303-00004
STARTEC GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS CORP.     )
SWISSCOM NORTH AMERICA, INC.       )
TELEBERMUDA INTERNATIONAL LIMITED  )
TELEGLOBE USA INC.                 )
TELENOR GLOBAL SERVICES AS              )
TELIA NORTH AMERICA INC.           )
VIATEL, INC.                       )
                                   )
                                   )
Joint Application for a License to Land and Operate    )    
in the United States a Submarine Cable  )           
System Extending Between the United States,  )
Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, France and the )
United Kingdom.                         )
                                   )

                      CABLE LANDING LICENSE

Adopted: September 30, 1999                           Released: October 1, 1999

By the Chief, Telecommunications Division:

                         I.  Introduction

     
1.   In this Order, we grant the application of AT&T Corp. (AT&T), BellSouth International, Inc.
(BSI), Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. (C&W USA), Cable & Wireless Global Networks Ltd. (C&WGN),
GTE Intelligent Network Services Inc. (GTEINS), IXC Communications Services, Inc. (IXC-CSI), KDD
America, Inc. (KDDA), MCI WorldCom, Inc. (MCI WorldCom), Pacific Gateway Exchange
(BERMUDA) Limited (PGE Bermuda), RSL COM U.S.A., Inc. (RSL USA), Sprint Communications
Company, L.P. (Sprint), STAR Telecommunications, Inc. (STAR), Startec Global Communications Corp.
(STGC), Swisscom North America, Inc. (SCNA), TeleBermuda International Limited (TeleBermuda),
Teleglobe USA Inc. (TUSA), Telenor Global Services AS (Telenor Global), Telia North America Inc.
(Telia NA), and Viatel, Inc. (Viatel) (collectively the Joint Applicants or Licensees) under the Cable
Landing License Act and Executive Order No. 10530 for authority to land and operate a private fiber
optic submarine cable system to be called "TAT-14 Cable Network" or "TAT-14," extending between the
United States, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, France, and the United Kingdom.  The capacity of
TAT-14 will be sold or leased to users on a non-tariffed, non common carrier basis.  We find that the Joint
Applicants have provided sufficient information under our rules to comply with the Cable Landing License
Act and that it would serve the public interest to grant the cable landing license subject to the conditions
listed below. 

                        II.  Application 

     2.   The application identifies as Joint Applicants 19 of the 51 initial investors in TAT-14. 
Sprint is a limited partnership organized and existing under the laws of Delaware.  AT&T and KDDA are
corporations organized and existing under the laws of New York.  BSI is a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of Georgia.  C&W USA is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of
the District of Columbia.  C&WGN is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Ireland. 
GTEINS, IXC-CSI, MCI WorldCom, RSL USA, STAR, SCNA, TUSA, Telia NA, and Viatel are
corporations organized and existing under the laws of Delaware.  PGE Bermuda and TeleBermuda are
corporations organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda.  STGC is a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of Maryland.  Telenor Global is a corporation organized and existing under the
laws of Norway.  Each of the Joint Applicants is a common carrier subject to the Communications Act of
1934, as amended.  The Joint Applicants and other carriers will own and operate TAT-14 in the
approximate proportions stated in the application.  The Joint Applicants' Management of TAT-14 will be
in accordance with the Construction and Maintenance Agreement (C&MA) included in the Application.

     3.   The proposed TAT-14 system will connect: (1) Manasquan, New Jersey; (2) Tuckerton,
New Jersey; (3) Blaabjerg, Denmark; (4) Norden, Germany; (5) Katwijk, the Netherlands; (6) St. Valery,
France; and (7) Widemouth, North Cornwall, United Kingdom.  The application states that TAT-14 will
employ state-of-the-art wave division multiplexing (WDM) fiber optic technology operating at up to 640
Gbps in a self-healing ring configuration.  TAT-14 will be connected to technologically suitable facilities
providing access to the domestic networks in each country or territory.  In addition, TAT-14 will be
extended by suitable facilities to the terminals of other communications systems, including other cable
terminals and satellite earth stations, to enable TAT-14 to be used for services between and among the
United States, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom, and points beyond.

     4.   As shown in Exhibit 1 that is attached to this order, TAT-14 will consist of seven cable
landing stations (Segments T1-T7) and seven wet subsegments (Subsegments S1-S7). Three of the
subsegments (Subsegments S1, S2, and S7) and two of the land points (Segments T1 at Manasquan, New
Jersey and T2 at Tuckerton, New Jersey) are subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.  The C&MA
provides that landing point Segment T1 shall be owned by Sprint and landing point Segment T2 shall be
owned by AT&T.  Section 16.1 of the C&MA provides that Sprint and AT&T are also responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the T1 and T2 segments, respectively.

     5.   Subsegment S1 consists of four fiber pairs between Manasquan and Tuckerton, New
Jersey.  Subsegment S2 consists of four fiber pairs between Tuckerton, New Jersey and Widemouth, North
Cornwall, U.K.  Subsegment S3 consists of four fiber pairs between Widemouth, U.K. and St. Valery-en-
Caux, France.   Subsegment S4 consists of four fiber pairs between St. Valery-en-Caux, France, and
Katwijk, the Netherlands.  Subsegment S5 consists of four fiber pairs between Katwijk, the Netherlands
and Norden, Germany.  Subsegment S6 consists of four fiber pairs between Norden, Germany and
Blaabjerg, Denmark.  Subsegment S7 consists of four fiber pairs between Blaabjerg, Denmark and
Manasquan, New Jersey.  Each fiber pair will operate at 160 Gbps.  The initial capacity of each fiber pair
is equivalent to 1024-155 Mbps Basic System Modules (BSMs), with each BSM containing 63 minimum
investment units (MIUs).  Operation of the TAT-14 system is anticipated to begin no later than December
31, 2000.                        

                         III.  Comments

     6.   The application was placed on public notice on March 26, 1999.  We received no
comments.  Pursuant to Section 1.767(b) of the Commission's rules, the Cable Landing License Act, and
Executive Order No. 10530, we informed the Department of State of the application.  The Department of State, after coordinating with the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration and the Department of Defense, stated that it has no objection to issuance of the cable
landing license.

                         IV.  Discussion

     A.   Private Submarine Cable Policy

     7.   The Joint Applicants propose to operate TAT-14 as a non common carrier submarine
cable system in which capacity will not be offered indifferently to the user public.  The Joint Applicants
request a license under the Commission's private submarine cable policy, which is intended to promote
competition in the provision of international transmission facilities.  Pursuant to this policy, the
Commission has authorized non common carrier cables where: (1) there is no legal compulsion to serve the
public indifferently; and (2) there are no reasons implicit in the nature of the operations to expect an
indifferent holding-out to the eligible user public.

     8.   In applying the first prong of the test to submarine cable authorizations, the Commission
has stated that there will be no legal compulsion to serve the public indifferently where there is no public
interest reason to require facilities to be offered on a common carrier basis.  This public interest analysis
has generally focused on whether an applicant will be able to exercise market power because of the lack of
alternative facilities.  Where the Commission has found that the licensee will lack market power and
therefore will not be able to charge monopoly rates for cable capacity, the Commission has found that the
public interest would be served by allowing a submarine cable to be offered on a non-common carrier
basis.

     9.   No one has suggested that the public interest requires TAT-14 to be operated on a common
carrier basis.  The Joint Applicants are affiliated with several foreign carriers in Europe, including carriers
in the United Kingdom, Denmark, the Netherlands, France and Germany, the destination countries for
TAT-14.  The Joint Applicants state that none of the Joint Applicants is affiliated with a carrier
designated by the Commission as presumptively dominant in those foreign countries where the TAT-14 will
land.  No commenter has disputed this fact, and we find that, in light of all the circumstances, it would not
serve the public interest to impose common carrier regulation on the operations of TAT-14 at this time. 
We note, however, that we maintain the ability to impose common carrier or common-carrier-like
obligations on the operations of this or any other submarine cable system if the public interest so requires. 
Furthermore, we have always maintained the authority to classify facilities as common carrier facilities
subject to Title II of the Communications Act if the public interest requires that the facilities be offered to
the public indifferently.

     10.  Regarding the second prong of the test, the Joint Applicants state that capacity will not be
sold indifferently to the user public.  We therefore conclude that the Joint Applicants will operate TAT-14
on a non-common carrier basis. 

     11.  We conclude that the Joint Applicants will not offer capacity in TAT-14 to the public on a
common carrier basis and that the public interest does not require that they do so.  Accordingly, we
conclude that it is appropriate to license TAT-14 on a non-common carrier basis.  We also find that the
Joint Applicants will not provide a telecommunications service for a fee to such a class of users as to be
"effectively available directly to the public" and thus will not be a "telecommunications carrier" under the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.
     
     B.   Ownership and Landing Points

     12.  The Joint Applicants have provided the ownership information required by sections 
1.767(a)(6), 63.18(e)(6), and 63.18(h) of the Commission's rules. Segment T1 located at Manasquan, New
Jersey will be owned by Sprint, and landing point Segment T2 located at Tuckerton, New Jersey will be
owned by AT&T.  Sprint and AT&T are also responsible for the operation and maintenance of the T1 and
T2 segments, respectively, including real property, buildings and terminal equipment, as well as the U.S.
territorial portions of the submarine cable from the landing stations to the U.S territorial limit.  The foreign
cable stations and the portions of the submarine cable will be owned as follows:  

          Segment T3 located at Widemouth, North Cornwall, U.K., owned by BT;
          Segment T4 located at St. Valery, France, owned by FT;
          Segment T5 located at Katwijk, the Netherlands, owned by KPN;
          Segment T6 located at Norden, Germany, owned by DTAG; and
          Segment T7 located at Blaabjerg, Denmark, owned by Telia.

     13.  The application states that TAT-14 will land at Manasquan, New Jersey; Tuckerton, New
Jersey; Blaabjerg, Denmark; Norden, Germany; Katwijk, the Netherlands; St. Valery, France; and
Widemouth, North Cornwall, United Kingdom.  The Manasquan, New Jersey station will be located at
Latitude 40.129868, Longitude -74.0430879.  The Tuckerton, New Jersey station will be located at
Latitude 39.6135, Longitude -74.32804.  We find the applicant's description of the likely locations of the
remaining landing points to be sufficient to determine that the proposed cable system will comply with the
provisions of the Cable Landing License Act and Commission rules.  Section 1.767(a) of the Commission's
rules permits applicants in an initial application to provide a general description of the landing points. 
The applicant must file a specific description of the remaining landing points, including a map, no later
than 90 days prior to construction at that landing point.  The Commission will give public notice of the
filing of the specific description, and grant of the license will be considered final with respect to that
landing point unless the Commission notifies the applicant to the contrary no later than 60 days after
receipt of the specific description of the landing points.

     C.   Environmental Impact

     14.  The Commission has found that the construction of new submarine cable systems,
individually and cumulatively, will not have a significant effect on the environment and therefore should be
expressly excluded from our procedures implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. 
Therefore, the Joint Applicants are not required to submit an environmental assessment, and this
Application is categorically excluded from environmental processing.

                          V.  Conclusion

     15.  We grant the Joint Applicants Application for authority to land and operate a non-common
carrier fiber optic submarine cable extending between the United States, Denmark,
Germany, the Netherlands, France, and the United Kingdom, subject to the conditions listed below. 
                                 
                         VI.  Ordering Clauses 

     16.  Consistent with the foregoing, we hereby GRANT AND ISSUE  the Joint Applicants a
license to land and operate a non common carrier fiber optic submarine cable system  (consisting of four
fiber pairs, each fiber pair to operate at 160 Gbps with an initial capacity for each fiber pair that is
equivalent to 1024-155 Mbps BSMs, with each BSM containing 63 MIUs) extending between landing
points at cable stations in Manasquan, New Jersey; Tuckerton, New Jersey; Blaabjerg, Denmark; Norden,
Germany; Katwijk, the Netherlands; St. Valery, France; and Widemouth, North Cornwall, United Kingdom
under the provisions of the Cable Landing License Act and Executive Order 10530.  This grant is subject
to all rules and regulations of the Commission; any treaties or conventions relating to communications to
which the United States is or may hereafter become a party; any action by the Commission or the Congress
of the United States rescinding, changing, modifying, or amending any rights accruing to any person
hereunder; and the following conditions:

          (1)  The location of the cable system within the territorial waters of the United States, its territories
     and possessions, and upon its shore shall be in conformity with plans approved by the Secretary of
     the Army, and the cable shall be moved or shifted by the Licensees at their expense upon the
     request of the Secretary of the Army whenever he or she considers such course necessary in the
     public interest, for reasons of national defense, or for the maintenance or improvement of harbors
     for navigational purposes;

          (2)  The Licensees shall at all times comply with any requirements of U.S. government authorities
     regarding the location and concealment of the cable facilities, buildings, and apparatus for the
     purpose of protecting and safeguarding the cable from injury or destruction by enemies of the
     United States;

          (3)  The Licensees or any persons or companies controlling them, controlled by them, or under
     direct or indirect common control with them do not enjoy and shall not acquire any right to handle
     traffic on a common carrier basis to or from the United States, its territories, or its possessions
     unless such service be authorized by the Commission pursuant to Section 214 of the
     Communications Act, as amended;

          (4)  The Licensees or any persons or companies controlling them, controlled by them, or under
     direct or indirect common control with them shall not acquire or enjoy any right to land, connect, or
     operate submarine cables that is denied to any other United States company by reason of any
     concession, contract, understanding, or working arrangement to which the Licensees or any persons
     controlling them, controlled by them, or under direct or indirect common control with them are
     parties;

          (5)  Neither this license nor the rights granted herein shall be transferred, assigned, or in any
     manner either voluntarily or involuntarily disposed of or disposed of indirectly by transfer of
     control of the Licensees to any persons, unless the Commission shall give prior consent in writing;

          (6)  The Licensees shall notify the Commission in writing of the precise locations at which the
     cable will land in Blaabjerg, Denmark; Norden, Germany; Katwijk, the Netherlands; St. Valery,
     France; and Widemouth, North Cornwall, United Kingdom.  Such notification with respect to any
     given landing location shall occur no later than ninety days prior to commencing construction at
     that landing location.  The Commission will give public notice of the filing of each description, and
     grant of this license will be considered final with respect to that landing location unless the
     Commission issues a notice to the contrary no later than sixty days after receipt of the specific
     description;

          (7)  The Commission reserves the right to require the Licensees to file an environmental assessment
     or environmental impact statement should it determine that the landing of the cables at those
     locations and construction of necessary cable landing stations would significantly affect the
     environment within the meaning of Section 1.1307 of the Commission's procedures implementing
     the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; this license is subject to modification by the
     Commission upon its review of any environmental assessment or environmental impact statement
     that it may require pursuant to its rules;
          
          (8)  Pursuant to Section 2 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  35; Executive Order No.
     10530, as amended; and Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C.
      214, the Commission reserves the right to impose common carrier regulation or other regulation
     consistent with the Cable Landing License Act on the operations of the cable system if it finds that
     the public interest so requires;

          (9)  The Licensees shall maintain de jure and de facto control of the U.S. portion of the cable
     system, including the cable landing stations in the United States, sufficient to comply with the
     requirements of this license;  

          (10)  This license is revocable by the Commission after due notice and opportunity for hearing
     pursuant to Section 2 of  "An Act relating to the Landing and Operation of Submarine Cables in
     the United States"; 47 U.S.C.  35, or for failure to comply with the terms of this License;

          (11)  The Licensees shall notify the Commission in writing of the date on which the cable is placed
     in service, and this license shall expire 25 years from such date, unless renewed or extended upon
     proper application, and, upon expiration of this license, all rights granted under it shall be
     terminated; and

          (12)  The terms and conditions upon which this license is given shall be accepted by the Licensees
     by filing a letter with the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C.
     20554, within 30 days of the release of the cable landing license.
          
     17.  This Order is issued under Section 0.261 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  0.261,
and is effective upon release.  Petitions for reconsideration under Section 1.106 or applications for review
under Section 1.115 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.106, 1.115, may be filed within 30 days of
the date of public notice of this order (see 47 C.F.R.  1.4(b)(2)).


                              FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 



                              Rebecca Arbogast
                              Chief, Telecommunications Division
                              International Bureau




















































                           Appendix B
                                
Attached Schedules A, B, C and C-1 of the TAT-14 Construction and Maintenance Agreement

           

                           Appendix C
                                
Schedule of Co-Chairmen or Responsible Parties for the Managing Group, Procurement Group,
Assignment Routing and Restoration Subcommittee, Financial and Administrative Subcommittee,
        Central Billing Party and Network Administrator
             As summarized from Annexes 1 through 6
      of the TAT-14 Construction and Maintenance Agreement



Managing Group
One U.S. member Party and one European
Member party elected by the Managing Group
Representatives


Procurement Group
British Telecommunications plc (BT) and France
Telecom (or the Chairperson of the Procurement
Group shall rotate among the Terminal Parties)


Assignment, Routing and Restoration
Subcommittee
Cable & Wireless Global Network Organization
Limited and BT


Financial and Administrative Subcommittee
MCI International, Inc.


Central Billing Party
Appointed by the Managing Group


Network Administrator
One of the Terminal Parties as Appointed by the
Managing Group

