                            APPENDIX D
              Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

     1.   As required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), an Initial Regulatory Flexibility
Analysis (IRFA) was included in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in this proceeding.  The Commission
sought written public comment on the proposals in the Notice, including comment on the IRFA.  This Final
Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (FRFA) conforms to the RFA.  This analysis also serves as the FRFA for
the issues disposed of here on reconsideration of the Foreign Carrier Entry Order.

Need for, and Objectives of, the Rules and Policies Adopted Here

     2.   This Report and Order and Order on Reconsideration adopts a liberalized standard for
participation by foreign and foreign-affiliated entities in the U.S. telecommunications markets.  This open
entry standard will apply to the provision of international telecommunications services under Section 214 of
the Communications Act, indirect foreign ownership of common carrier radio licensees under Section
310(b)(4), and cable landing licenses under the Submarine Cable Landing License Act.  It also revises the
Commission's regulatory safeguards governing the provision of international telecommunications services
in light of recent changes in the world's telecommunications market and the Commission's liberalized
standard for participation by foreign and foreign-affiliated entities.  The Commission has deemed these
changes appropriate in light of the recent World Trade Organization (WTO) Basic Telecommunications
Services Agreement and the worldwide trend toward deregulation and competition in the provision of
telecommunications services.  Our objective is to increase competition in the U.S. telecommunications
markets while minimizing the risk of anticompetitive harm and encouraging foreign governments to open
their telecommunications markets.  In light of the changed circumstances that will result from the WTO
Basic Telecom Agreement and our nearly two years of experience with our current rules on market entry
and regulation of foreign-affiliated entities, we find that reducing entry barriers for applicants affiliated
with entities from WTO Member countries is the appropriate way to accomplish that objective.  The
Commission believes that it is no longer necessary to apply the "effective competitive opportunities" (ECO)
test developed in the 1995 Foreign Carrier Entry Order to countries that are Members of the WTO. 
Instead, we will rely primarily on regulatory safeguards and benchmark settlement rates to reduce the
potential for anticompetitive conduct in the U.S. market.  We revise some of those safeguards in this Order.

Summary of Significant Issues Raised by Public Comments in Response to the IRFA

     3.   No comments were submitted specifically in response to the IRFA.  Nevertheless, we have
considered, in developing these rules and policies, any potential significant economic impact on small
entities.  We have attempted to minimize the burdens imposed on all entities, including small entities, in
order to promote participation by new entrants in the U.S. telecommunications markets.

     4.   NextWave raised comments in response to the Notice specific to the impact of our policy
toward indirect foreign investment in C-block and F-block licensees.  Those blocks, known as
"entrepreneur" blocks, are reserved for small businesses and entrepreneurs.  NextWave states that it and
other entrepreneurial carriers are dependent on financing from a variety of sources, including foreign
investment, and that access to foreign capital is vital to their financial viability.  NextWave argues that
indirect foreign investment in C-block and F-block licensees presents "no conceivable risk to competition"
because those licenses are held by entrepreneurs who are new entrants into the markets.  NextWave
proposes that, for that reason, the Commission should conclude that indirect foreign investment in C-block
and F-block personal communications systems (PCS) licensees by any entity whose home market is a WTO
Member country serves the public interest and should not be subject to prior Commission approval. 
NextWave also urges the Commission, in the alternative, to establish an expedited process and timetable
for addressing applications to exceed the 25 percent benchmark for indirect foreign ownership of common
carrier wireless licensees.

     5.   Telephone and Data Systems (TDS) proposed that the Commission permit without prior
approval any amount of indirect foreign ownership of common carrier radio licensees held in the form of
registered securities when the foreign investor is not a carrier and comes from one of the 64 other WTO
Member countries that has committed to enforce fair rules of competition for basic telecommunications. 
Under TDS's proposal, the Commission would continue to require prior approval for investors from other
WTO Member countries, for investors from non-WTO countries, and from all foreign carriers.  TDS
suggested that we scrutinize filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission to monitor foreign
ownership of registered securities and that we rely on revocation, instead of prior approval, to protect the
public interest pursuant to Section 310(b)(4).  TDS states that adoption of its proposal would significantly
reduce burdens on common carrier radio licensees, who currently must research the nationalities of their
individual shareholders in order to remain in compliance with the restrictions on foreign ownership.

Description and Estimate of the Number of Small Entities to Which the Rules Will Apply

     6.   We received no comments in response to our estimates in the IRFA of the number of small
entities to which the proposed rules would apply.  We conclude that the IRFA's estimates are the best
available estimates of the number of small entities that the rules we adopt here will affect and that those
estimates are sufficiently useful in enabling us to attempt to minimize the economic impact of our rules on
small entities.

     7.   The RFA generally defines small entity as having the same meaning as the terms small
business, small organization, and small governmental jurisdiction and defines small business as having
the same meaning as the term small business concern under section 3 of the Small Business Act unless the
Commission has developed one or more definitions that are appropriate for its activities.  The Small
Business Act defines small business concern as one that (1) is independently owned and operated; (2) is
not dominant in its field of operation; and (3) satisfies any additional criteria established by the Small
Business Administration (SBA).

     8.   The rules adopted in this Order apply only to entities providing international common
carrier services pursuant to Section 214 of the Communications Act; entities providing domestic or
international wireless common carrier, aeronautical enroute, or aeronautical fixed services under Section
309 of the Act; and entities licensed to construct and operate submarine cables under the Cable Landing
License Act.

     9.   Because the small incumbent local exchange carriers (LECs) subject to these rules are
either dominant in their fields of operations or are not independently owned and operated, consistent with
our prior practice, they are excluded from the definitions of small entity and small business concern. 
Accordingly, our use of the terms small entities and small businesses does not encompass small incumbent
LECs.  Out of an abundance of caution, however, for the purposes of this FRFA, we will consider small
incumbent LECs to be within this analysis, where a small incumbent LEC is any incumbent LEC that
arguably might be defined by the SBA as a "small business concern."

     a.  Section 214 International Common Carrier Services

     10.  Entities providing international common carrier service pursuant to Section 214 of the Act
fall into the SBA's Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) categories for Radiotelephone Communications
(SIC 4812) and Telephone Communications, Except Radiotelephone (SIC 4813).  The SBA's definition of
small entity for those categories is one with fewer than 1,500 employees.  We discuss below the number
of small entities falling within these two subcategories that may be affected by the rules adopted in this
Order.

     11.  The most reliable source of information regarding the number of international common
carriers is the data that we collect annually in connection with the Telecommunications Industry Revenue: 
Telecommunications Relay Service Fund Worksheet Data (TRS Worksheet).  In 1995, 445 toll carriers
filed TRS fund worksheets.  We believe that between 50 and 200 carriers failed to file TRS fund
worksheets.  We believe also that fewer than 10 toll carriers had 1,500 or more employees.  Thus, at most
635 international carriers would be classified as small entities.  Many TRS filers, however, are affiliated
with other carriers, and therefore the number of aggregated carriers is far fewer than the preceding
estimate.  Of the 445 toll filers, 239 reported no carrier affiliates.  Adding 50 non-filers gives a lower
estimate of 289 international carriers that would be classified as small entities.  Thus, our best estimate of
the total number of small entities is between 289 and 635.  We are unable at this time to estimate with
greater precision the number of international carriers that would qualify as small business entities under the
SBA's definition.  While not all of these entities may have provided international service in 1995, we expect
that many of these entities will seek to do so in the future, as will additional entrants into the market.

     b.  Title III Common Carrier Services

     12.  Cellular licensees.  Neither the Commission nor the SBA has developed a definition of
small entities applicable to cellular licensees.  The closest applicable definition of small entity is the
definition under the SBA rules applicable to radiotelephone (wireless) companies (SIC 4812).  The most
reliable source of information regarding the number of cellular services carriers nationwide of which we are
aware appears to be the data that the Commission collects annually in connection with the TRS
Worksheet.  According to the most recent data, 792 companies reported that they were engaged in the
provision of cellular services.  Although it seems certain that some of these carriers are not independently
owned and operated, or have more than 1,500 employees, we are unable at this time to estimate with
greater precision the number of cellular services carriers that would qualify as small business concerns
under the SBA's definition.  Consequently, we estimate that there are fewer than 792 small cellular service
carriers.

     13.  220 MHz Radio Services.  Because the Commission has not yet defined a small business
with respect to 220 MHz radio services, we will utilize the SBA's definition applicable to radiotelephone
companies   i.e., an entity employing less than 1,500 persons.  With respect to the 220 MHz services,
the Commission has proposed a two-tiered definition of small business for purposes of auctions:  (1) for
Economic Area (EA) licensees, a firm with average annual gross revenues of not more than $6 million for
the preceding three years, and (2) for regional and nationwide licensees, a firm with average annual gross
revenues of not more than $15 million for the preceding three years.  Since this definition has not yet been
approved by the SBA, we will utilize the SBA's definition applicable to radiotelephone companies.  Given
the fact that nearly all radiotelephone companies employ fewer than 1,000 employees, with respect to the
approximately 3,800 incumbent licensees in this service, we will consider them to be small businesses
under the SBA definition.

     14.  Common Carrier Paging.  The Commission has proposed a two-tier definition of small
businesses in the context of auctioning licenses in the Common Carrier Paging services.  Because the SBA
has not yet approved this definition for paging services, we will utilize the SBA's definition applicable to
radiotelephone companies, i.e., an entity employing fewer than 1,500 persons.  At present, there are
approximately 74,000 Common Carrier Paging licensees.  We estimate that the majority of common carrier
paging providers would qualify as small businesses under the SBA definition.

     15.  Mobile Service Carriers.  Neither the Commission nor the SBA has developed a definition
of small entities specifically applicable to mobile service carriers such as paging companies.  The closest
applicable definition under the SBA rules is for radiotelephone (wireless) companies. The most reliable
source of information regarding the number of mobile service carriers nationwide of which we are aware
appears to be the data that the Commission collects annually in connection with the TRS Worksheet. 
According to the most recent data, 117 companies reported that they were engaged in the provision of
mobile services.  Although it seems certain that some of these carriers are not independently owned and
operated, or have more than 1,500 employees, we are unable at this time to estimate with greater precision
the number of mobile service carriers that would qualify under the SBA's definition.  Consequently, we
estimate that fewer than 117 mobile service carriers are small entities.

     16.  Broadband Personal Communications Services (PCS).  The broadband PCS spectrum is
divided into six frequency blocks designated A through F, and the Commission has held auctions for each
block.  The Commission has defined small entity in the auctions for Blocks C and F as an entity that has
average gross revenues of less than $40 million in the three previous calendar years.  For Block F, an
additional classification for "very small business" was added and is defined as an entity that, together with
its affiliates, has average gross revenue of not more than $15 million for the preceding three calendar
years.  These regulations defining small entity in the context of broadband PCS auctions have been
approved by the SBA.  No small business within the SBA-approved definition bid successfully for licenses
in Blocks A and B.  There were 90 winning bidders that qualified as small entities in the Block C auctions. 
A total of 93 small and very small businesses won approximately 40 percent of the 1,479 licenses for
Blocks D, E, and F.  However, licenses for Blocks C through F have not been awarded fully; therefore,
there are few, if any, small businesses currently providing PCS services.  Based on this information, we
conclude that the number of small broadband PCS licensees will include the 90 winning bidders and the 93
qualifying bidders in the D, E, and F Blocks, for a total of 183 small PCS providers as defined by the SBA
and the Commission's auction rules.

     17.  Narrowband PCS.  The Commission does not know how many narrowband PCS licenses
will be granted or auctioned, as it has not yet determined the size or number of such licenses.  Two auctions
of narrowband PCS licenses have been conducted for a total of 41 licenses, out of which 11 were obtained
by small businesses owned by members of minority groups and/or women.  Small businesses were defined
as those with average gross revenues for the prior three fiscal years of $40 million or less.  For purposes
of this FRFA, the Commission is utilizing the SBA definition applicable to radiotelephone companies, i.e.,
an entity employing less than 1,500 persons.  Not all of the narrowband PCS licenses have yet been
awarded.  There is therefore no basis to determine the number of licenses that will be awarded to small
entities in future auctions.  Given the facts that nearly all radiotelephone companies have fewer than 1,000
employees and that no reliable estimate of the number of prospective narrowband PCS licensees can be
made, we assume, for purposes of the evaluations and conclusions in this FRFA, that all the remaining
narrowband PCS licenses will be awarded to small entities.

     18.  Rural Radiotelephone Service.  The Commission has not adopted a definition of small
business specific to the Rural Radiotelephone Service, which is defined in Section 22.99 of the
Commission's Rules.  A significant subset of the Rural Radiotelephone Service is BETRS, or Basic
Exchange Telephone Radio Systems (the parameters of which are defined in Sections 22.757 and 22.759 of
the Commission's Rules).  Accordingly, we will use the SBA's definition applicable to radiotelephone
companies, i.e., an entity employing fewer than 1,500 persons.  There are approximately 1,000 licensees in
the Rural Radiotelephone Service, and we estimate that almost all of them have fewer than 1,500
employees.

     19.  Air-Ground Radiotelephone.  The Commission has not adopted a definition of small
business specific to the Air-Ground Radiotelephone Service, which is defined in Section 22.99 of the
Commission's Rules.  Accordingly, we will use the SBA's definition applicable to radiotelephone
companies, i.e., an entity employing fewer than 1,500 persons.  There are approximately 100 licensees in
the Air-Ground Radiotelephone Service, and we estimate that almost all of them qualify as small under the
SBA definition.

     20.  Specialized Mobile Radio Licensees (SMR).  Pursuant to Section 90.814(b)(1) of our
rules, the Commission awards bidding credits in auctions for geographic area 800 MHz and 900 MHz
Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) licenses to firms that had revenues of less than $15 million in each of the
three previous calendar years.  This regulation defining "small entity" in the context of 800 MHz and 900
MHz SMR has been approved by the SBA.  We do not know how many firms provide 800 MHz or 900
MHz geographic area SMR service pursuant to extended implementation authorizations or how many of
these providers have annual revenues of less than $15 million.  We do know that one of these firms has
over $15 million in revenues.  We assume that all of the remaining existing extended implementation
authorizations are held by small entities, as that term is defined by the SBA.  The Commission recently held
auctions for geographic area licenses in the 900 MHz SMR band.  There were 60 winning bidders who
qualified as small entities in the 900 MHz auction.  Based on this information, we conclude that the number
of geographic area SMR licensees affected includes these 60 small entities.

     21.  Microwave Video Services.  Microwave services includes common carrier, private
operational fixed, and broadcast auxiliary radio services.  At present, there are 22,015 common carrier
licensees.  Inasmuch as the Commission has not yet defined small business with respect to microwave
services, we will utilize the SBA's definition applicable to radiotelephone companies   i.e., an entity with
less than 1,500 employees.  Although some of these companies may have more than 1,500 employees, we
are unable at this time to estimate with greater precision the number of common carrier microwave service
providers that would qualify under the SBA's definition.  We therefore estimate that there are fewer than
22,015 small common carrier licensees in the microwave video services.

     22.  Offshore Radiotelephone Service.  This service operates on several UHF TV broadcast
channels that are not used for TV broadcasting in the coastal area of the states bordering the Gulf of
Mexico.  At present, there are approximately 55 licensees in this service.  Some of those licensees are
common carriers.  We are unable at this time to estimate the number of licensees that would qualify as
small under the SBA's definition.

     23.  Local Multipoint Distribution Service (LMDS).  The Commission has so far licensed only
one licensee in this service, and that licensee is not providing service as a common carrier.  There will be a
total of 986 LMDS licenses.  Licensees will be permitted to decide whether to provide common carrier
service, and we have no way of estimating how many will choose to do so.  Because there will be no
restrictions on the number of licenses a given entity may acquire, we have no way of estimating how many
total licensees there will be.  We also cannot estimate the number of common carrier licensees that will
qualify as small entities.

     24.  Space Stations (Geostationary).  Very few systems are currently operated on a common
carrier basis.  Because we do not collect information on annual revenue or number of employees of all these
licensees, we cannot estimate with precision the number of such licensees that may constitute a small
business entity.  It is likely that no more than one such entity that is currently operating as a common
carrier would constitute a small business entity.  There may be a small increase in the number of such
entities in the future as a result of recent licensing action in the Ka-band.

     25.  Space Stations (Non-geostationary).  These systems by and large do not operate as
common carriers.  Because we do not collect information on annual revenue or number of employees, we
cannot estimate with precision whether any carrier that may choose to operate on a common carrier basis
constitutes a small business entity.  The trend is for such systems to operate on a non common carrier
basis.  These systems, of which there will be a limited number, by and large are not yet operational and are
still being licensed and constructed.

     26.  Earth Stations.  The vast majority of earth stations licensed by the Commission are not
operated on a common carrier basis.  Earth stations that communicate with non-geostationary and Ka-band
satellite systems may operate on a common carrier basis but these systems are not yet operational and are
still being licensed and constructed.  We are unable to estimate at this time the number of earth stations
communicating with such systems that may operate on a common carrier basis and, of those, the number
that will be licensed to small business entities.

     c.  Aeronautical Enroute and Aeronautical Fixed Licenses

     27.  The Commission has not adopted a definition of small business specific to the aeronautical
enroute and aeronautical fixed services.  Accordingly, we will use the SBA's definition applicable to
radiotelephone companies, i.e., an entity employing fewer than 1,500 persons.  There are 45 licensees
providing aeronautical enroute and aeronautical fixed services, including Aeronautical Radio Inc. (ARINC)
and its affiliates.  All of the licensees are small businesses except ARINC, which has approximately 2,000
employees.  We therefore conclude that there are 44 small businesses providing aeronautical enroute and
aeronautical fixed services.

     d.  Submarine Cable Landing Licenses

     28.  The new rules and policies adopted in this Order will affect all holders of and future
applicants for cable landing licenses, whether or not they operate their cables as common carriers.  It is
difficult to estimate how many applications for cable landing licenses will be filed in coming years, but that
number will likely increase if we adopt our proposal to lower the barriers to granting licenses for cables to
WTO Member countries.  Since 1992, there have been approximately 40 applications for cable landing
licenses.  The total number of licensees is difficult to determine, because many licenses are jointly held by
several licensees.  Our rules will also permit more current licensees to accept additional investment from
entities from WTO Member countries.

Description of Projected Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements

     29.  The rules and policies adopted in this Report and Order and Order on Reconsideration
will affect large and small entities.  We will require that U.S. carriers whose foreign affiliates have market
power maintain or provide certain records regarding their foreign affiliates.  Our rules will in most cases
reduce the burdens that are currently imposed on such carriers, and we anticipate that the remaining
requirements will not impose a significant economic burden, particularly on small entities.  A variety of
skills may be required to comply with the proposed requirements, but all of the skills that may be required
are of the type needed to conduct a carrier's normal course of business.  No additional outside professional
skills should be required, with the possible exception of preparing an initial Section 214 or cable landing
license application and of preparing a submission for our consideration under Section 310(b)(4), most of
which will be simplified by the rules and policies we adopt here.

     30.  An applicant for a Section 214 authorization or a cable landing license will no longer be
required to show either that an affiliated foreign carrier lacks market power or that the destination country
provides effective competitive opportunities (ECO) to U.S. carriers so long as it shows that the destination
country is a Member of the World Trade Organization.  Similarly, entities holding or seeking to hold
common carrier wireless licenses or aeronautical enroute or aeronautical fixed licenses that have more than
25 percent indirect foreign investment will not need to demonstrate that the home markets of the foreign
investor or investors from WTO Members offer effective competitive opportunities for U.S. investors in the
analogous service sector.  See supra Section III.

     31.  Authorized international common carriers will no longer be required to notify the
Commission before accepting investments by foreign carriers (or their affiliates) between 10 percent and 25
percent.  We have retained a requirement that authorized carriers notify the Commission before accepting
investment greater than 25 percent.  We have added a requirement that authorized carriers notify the
Commission before they (or their affiliates) acquire a direct or indirect controlling interest in a foreign
carrier; previously, those interests were subject only to a post hoc notification requirement.  We continue to
require authorized carriers to notify the Commission within 30 days after acquiring a direct or indirect
interest greater than 25 percent in a foreign carrier if the acquisition of that interest has not otherwise been
reported.  See supra Section VI.B.

     32.  We have narrowed the application of our "No Special Concessions" rule, which prohibits
carriers from entering into exclusive arrangements with foreign carriers.  That rule will now apply only to
carriers' dealings with foreign carriers that have sufficient market power in their home markets to adversely
affect competition in the U.S. market.  See supra Section V.B.1.  Carriers wishing to enter into alternative
settlement arrangements with foreign carriers operating in WTO Member countries will presumptively be
allowed to do so.  That presumption may be overcome where an opponent demonstrates that there are not
multiple facilities-based carriers operating in the foreign carrier's market.  See supra Section V.E.

     33.  To ensure fair competition among authorized carriers and to be consistent with our policy
governing the confidentiality of competing carrier information, all U.S. carriers will be prohibited from
receiving proprietary or confidential information about competing U.S. carriers obtained by any foreign
carrier in the course of its regular business dealings with the competing U.S. carrier, unless the U.S. carrier
provides specific written permission.  See supra Section V.B.2.a.  We will also require U.S. carriers
desiring to make use of foreign-derived customer proprietary network information (CPNI) pertaining to a
specific U.S. customer to first obtain approval from that customer and notify that customer that the
customer may require the carrier to disclose the CPNI to unaffiliated third parties.  See supra Section
V.B.2.b.

     34.  An authorized carrier affiliated with a foreign carrier will be subject to additional
requirements.  Its authorization to serve the affiliated market will be conditioned on the foreign affiliate's
offering to all U.S.-licensed carriers a settlement rate at or below the benchmark adopted for that country in
the Commission's recent Benchmarks Order.  Foreign-affiliated carriers classified as dominant are subject
to additional reporting, recordkeeping, and compliance requirements.  In this Order, we substantially
reduce the initial showing that a foreign-affiliated carrier must make in order to be presumptively classified
as non-dominant by adopting a presumption that a foreign carrier with less than 50 percent market share in
certain relevant terminating markets does not have sufficient market power to affect competition adversely
in the U.S. market.  We remove existing dominant carrier requirements that we find to be unnecessarily
burdensome and adopt a narrowly tailored dominant carrier framework designed to address specific
concerns of anticompetitive behavior.  We replace the requirement that dominant carriers file tariffs on
fourteen days' advance notice with a one-day advance notice requirement, and we will accord these tariff
filings a presumption of lawfulness.  We will no longer require foreign-affiliated carriers to obtain
Commission approval before adding or discontinuing circuits on the dominant route.  We require dominant
carriers to provide service on the affiliated route through a corporation that is separate from its foreign
affiliate, maintain separate books of account, and not jointly own switching or transmission facilities with
its foreign affiliate.  Carriers regulated as dominant will be required to file quarterly traffic and revenue
reports, provisioning and maintenance reports, and circuit status reports on the dominant affiliated route. 
We decline to adopt the proposal in the Notice to ban exclusive arrangements involving joint marketing,
customer steering, and the use of foreign market telephone customer information.  See supra Section V.C.2.

     35.  Finally, we impose a reporting requirement on switched resellers that are affiliated with a
foreign carrier that has sufficient market power on the foreign end of a route to affect competition adversely
in the U.S. market.  We will require these resellers to file quarterly traffic and revenue reports for their
switched resale traffic on the affiliated route.  See supra Section V.C.1.b.

Federal Rules that May Duplicate, Overlap, or Conflict with the Rules Adopted Here

     36.  None.

Steps Taken to Minimize Significant Economic Impact on Small Entities, and Significant Alternatives
Considered

     37.  We have taken significant steps to minimize the procedural burdens imposed on all
affected entities.  The application of the rules we adopt in this Order does not vary depending on the size of
the entities involved.  Some regulations may be more burdensome on large carriers than on small carriers
because large carriers may be more likely to be dominant or to operate on a facilities basis than are small
carriers.  That is, small carriers may be more likely to operate as resellers of switched international
services, which are less likely to be subject to our most stringent regulation.

     38.  The revisions to our policies toward evaluating Section 214 and cable landing license
applications will significantly reduce burdens on many current and potential international common carriers. 
A foreign-affiliated carrier seeking to serve an affiliated route will no longer be required to show either that
its affiliate lacks market power or that the destination country provides effective competitive opportunities
(ECO) to U.S. carriers so long it shows that the destination country is a Member of the World Trade
Organization.  We believe this to be a minimal burden for most small entities and a significantly lesser
burden than the detailed showings required to demonstrate either that the affiliate lacks market power or
that the destination country provides ECO.  The ECO test, in particular, has proven to be unusually
burdensome both on applicants and on the Commission.

     39.  Similarly, the revisions to our policy toward evaluating Section 310(b)(4) requests by
common carrier radio licensees and aeronautical licensees to accept indirect foreign investment greater than
25 percent will significantly reduce the burdens on licensees (and prospective licensees) seeking to accept
investment from entities in WTO Member countries.  Those applicants will no longer be required to show
that the home market of the investor offers effective competitive opportunities for U.S. investors in the
analogous service sector.  This will make those applications much simpler and less time-consuming and,
more importantly, will make it much easier for licensees to accept foreign investment and for prospective
licensees to plan their business affairs.  Common carrier radio licensees will continue to be required to seek
Commission approval before accepting indirect foreign investment above a level for which they have
previously received Commission approval.

     40.  We have taken steps to facilitate entry into the U.S. market for international
telecommunications services by small carriers.  Small carriers often enter the market, at least initially, by
reselling the switched services of other authorized international carriers.  In this Order, we change our
procedural rules to afford streamlined processing to any applicant whose foreign affiliate is from a WTO
Member country if the applicant requests authority to serve that country solely by reselling the switched
services of unaffiliated U.S. international carriers.  We also will streamline process the Section 214
application of any foreign-affiliated applicant whose affiliate is from a WTO Member and that
demonstrates clearly and convincingly that the foreign affiliate has less than a 50 percent market share in
certain relevant terminating markets in the destination foreign country.  In addition, we will streamline
process the Section 214 application of any applicant whose affiliate is from a WTO Member and is not
otherwise eligible for streamlined processing if the applicant certifies that it will comply with our dominant
carrier regulations.  Streamlined applications, unless they are removed from the streamlined process, are
granted 35 days from the date they are placed on public notice.  See supra Section VI.A.

     41.  In revising our regulations that apply to authorized international common carriers, we have
developed a targeted approach designed to monitor and detect anticompetitive behavior in the U.S. market
without imposing regulations that are more burdensome than necessary.  In doing so, we have attempted to
minimize burdens on entities that are unlikely to pose a threat to competition.  We also have removed
restrictions on whole categories of activities that we have concluded do not pose a threat to competition in
the developing competitive marketplace.  Our approach relies in large part on reporting requirements,
rather than restrictions on capacity changes or service options, to prevent affiliated carriers from causing
competitive harms in the U.S. international services market.

     42.  We have significantly reduced the scope of our rule that prohibits carriers from entering
into certain exclusive arrangements with foreign carriers.  Our "No Special Concessions" rule will now
prohibit accepting certain specified arrangements only from foreign carriers that have sufficient market
power in their home markets to adversely affect competition in the U.S. market.  We adopt a presumption
that foreign carriers with less than 50 percent market share in the relevant terminating markets do not have
such sufficient market power.  We anticipate that delineating those arrangements that are subject to the
prohibition and adopting this presumption will significantly clarify the circumstances in which authorized
carriers will be permitted to accept special concessions from foreign carriers.  This more targeted rule also
will allow authorized carriers substantially more flexibility in arranging their business affairs.

     43.  Carriers wishing to enter into alternative settlement arrangements with foreign carriers
operating in WTO Member countries will presumptively be allowed to do so.  This presumption may be
overcome by a demonstration that there are not multiple facilities-based carriers operating in the foreign
carrier's market.  We expect to allow alternative settlements more as a rule than as an exception, and the
issue of whether there are multiple facilities-based carriers operating in the foreign market will be less
burdensome than the issue of whether the foreign market offers effective competitive opportunities, which
is the standard being replaced.

     44.  We have declined, in this Order, to adopt certain proposals in the Notice that would have
restricted the business strategies of carriers classified as dominant.  Instead, we will impose reporting
requirements that will enable us to detect and deter anticompetitive behavior.  We have declined to adopt
proposals in the Notice to ban exclusive arrangements involving joint marketing, customer steering, and the
use of foreign market telephone customer information.  We have found that such proscriptive safeguards
would be unduly burdensome and could unnecessarily impede business activities.  We choose to rely
instead on the general prohibition on accepting special concessions combined with additional reporting and
disclosure requirements, instead of proscriptive safeguards, for carriers with foreign affiliations.  We have
also relieved carriers of the requirement to notify the Commission of investments by foreign carriers of 10
percent or more; they now must report an investment by a foreign carrier only when that investment
exceeds 25 percent.  We conclude that none of the safeguards we impose specifically on carriers classified
as dominant will impose significant economic burdens.

     45.  We have also declined to impose on switched resellers a condition that their foreign
affiliates maintain settlement rates at or below the benchmark settlement rates we adopted in the
Benchmarks Order.  We find that such a condition would be unnecessarily burdensome inasmuch as
resellers have less ability to engage in anticompetitive conduct than facilities-based carriers and we have a
greater ability to detect anticompetitive conduct by switched resellers.  Imposing a benchmark condition on
switched resellers would impose significant economic impact on resellers, many of whom are small entities,
that could prevent some new entrants from entering the U.S. market and affect the ability of existing
carriers to provide service.  To address concerns about traffic distortions related to resale, however, we
have decided to impose a requirement on switched resellers that are affiliated with a carrier that has
sufficient market power to affect competition adversely in the U.S. market.  We will require those resellers
to file quarterly traffic and revenue reports for their traffic on the affiliated route in order to enable the
Commission to determine whether switched resellers are engaging in anticompetitive conduct.

     46.  In the Notice, we sought comment on whether to adopt, as an additional dominant carrier
safeguard, some level of structural separation between a U.S. carrier and its affiliated foreign carrier.  We
adopt here a requirement that a foreign-affiliated U.S. international carrier regulated as dominant provide
service in the U.S. market through a corporation that is separate from the foreign affiliate, maintain
separate books of account, and not jointly own switching and transmission facilities with its foreign carrier
affiliate.  We find that, without such separation, discrimination, cost-misallocation, and the possibility of a
predatory price squeeze by such a foreign-affiliated carrier would have the potential to cause substantial
harm to consumers, competition, and production efficiency in the U.S. international services market.  These
requirements will not impose a significant burden on such carriers because most foreign-affiliated carriers
operating in the United States do so in a manner that is consistent with the requirements we adopt here.  We
have considered imposing more stringent structural separation requirements but have found them to be
unnecessary and to potentially impose a significant burden on foreign-affiliated carriers that operate in the
U.S. market.

     47.  We are unable to adopt NextWave's proposal to state that indirect foreign investment in C-
block and F-block PCS licensees by any entity whose home market is a WTO Member country serves the
public interest and will not be subject to prior Commission approval.  We have found that prior approval is
necessary in all instances of indirect foreign investment in excess of 25 percent because of the need to
review such investments for national security, law enforcement, foreign policy, and trade concerns as well
as for the exceptional case that poses a very high risk to competition.  We do, however, adopt NextWave's
alternative proposal to establish an expedited process and timetable for addressing those applications: 
These applications will generally be added to the International Bureau's streamlined process and usually
granted within 35 days from the date the International Bureau places the application on public notice.  We
expect that application of our open entry standard and streamlined process will both minimize procedural
burdens on small entities and present substantial new opportunities for obtaining foreign capital.  See supra
Section III.D.

     48.  We are unable to adopt TDS's proposal to disregard investments in common carrier radio
licensees by non-carriers held as publicly traded securities.  We accept the concerns of Executive Branch
agencies that a prior approval process is necessary for all investments and that even small investments in
publicly traded securities could, if aggregated, nevertheless create a degree of control or influence over a
licensee that would be contrary to U.S. national security or law enforcement interests.  See supra Section
III.D.

     49.  We have also decided not to adopt a policy that a common carrier radio licensee need not
seek Commission approval before accepting increases in indirect foreign ownership once they have
obtained Commission authority to exceed 25 percent indirect foreign ownership.  We have determined that
every such increase requires Commission review in order to consider the effect of the ownership on national
security and law enforcement interests.  See supra Section III.D.

     50.  We conclude that these steps we have taken to minimize significant economic impact on
small entities will advance the small business goals of Section 257 of the Act, as added by the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.

Report to Congress

     51.  The Commission will send a copy of this Report and Order and Order on
Reconsideration, including this FRFA, in a report to be sent to Congress pursuant to the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, see 5 U.S.C.  801(a)(1)(A).  A summary of this Report
and Order and Order on Reconsideration, and a copy of this FRFA, will also be published in the Federal
Register, see 5 U.S.C.  604(b), and will be sent to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business
Administration.

