********************************************************    
                         NOTICE
********************************************************

This document was converted from
WordPerfect to ASCII Text format.

Content from the original version of the document such as
headers, footers, footnotes, endnotes, graphics, and page numbers
will not show up in this text version.

All text attributes such as bold, italic, underlining, etc. from the
original document will not show up in this text version.

Features of the original document layout such as
columns, tables, line and letter spacing, pagination, and margins
will not be preserved in the text version.

If you need the complete document, download the
WordPerfect version or Adobe Acrobat version, if available.

*****************************************************************
                            Before the
                Federal Communications Commission
                     Washington, D.C.  20554
                                                                 

In the Matter of                )
                                )
1998 Biennial Regulatory Review  )      IB Docket No. 98-118
Review of International Common Carrier)
Regulations                     )


                         REPORT AND ORDER
                                 
Adopted:  March 18, 1999                      Released:  March 23, 1999

By the Commission:  Commissioner Furchtgott-Roth issuing a statement.

                        Table of Contents

Topic                                               Paragraph No.

          I.  Introduction and Summary . . . . . . . . . . . .  1

         II.  Discussion of Rule Changes . . . . . . . . . . .  8
               A.   International Section 214 Authorizations .  8
               B.   Forbearance from Pro Forma Assignments and Transfers of Control 41
               C.   Provision of Service by Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries 46
               D.   Use of Non-U.S.-Licensed Facilities. . . . 57
               E.   Procedures for Authorizing Submarine Cable Systems 64
               F.   Authorization Procedure for Switched Services over Private Lines 71
               G.   Applicants' Ownership Information. . . . . 75
               H.   Reorganization of Part 63 Rules. . . . . . 78
               I.   Miscellaneous Issues . . . . . . . . . . . 85

        III.  Procedural Matters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96

         IV.  Ordering Clauses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98

               Appendix A:    Parties Filing Comments or Reply Comments and Short-Form Names
Appendix B:    Final Rules
               Appendix C:    Exclusion List for International Section 214 Authorizations, as amended

                   I.  Introduction and Summary

     1.  In this Report and Order we continue our biennial review of common carrier regulations by
relieving providers of international telecommunications services of regulatory burdens that are no longer
necessary.  The steps we take in this order will allow new carriers to enter the market more easily and will
allow carriers already providing service more flexibility to conduct their businesses.  We also remove or
clarify unnecessary or confusing rules and simplify existing procedures.

     2.  Following adoption of these rules, most new carriers will be authorized to provide international
services on most international routes 14 days after public notice of an application.  Carriers already
providing service will be able to complete pro forma transactions and assignments of their authorizations
without prior Commission approval and will be able to provide service through their wholly-owned
subsidiaries without separate Commission approval.  Carriers that are under common ownership with an
already-authorized carrier will be able to provide the same authorized services after only a minimal waiting
period.  Authorized carriers will be able to use any authorized U.S.-licensed or non-U.S.-licensed undersea
cable systems in their provision of their authorized services.  And the Commission's limited resources will
no longer be consumed by ministerial tasks that no longer serve any useful purpose.

     3.  The initiatives we adopt here result from a thorough review of the rules that apply to
international carriers and applicants seeking to become authorized international carriers.  The
Telecommunications Act of 1996 directs the Commission to undertake, in every even-numbered year
beginning in 1998, a review of all regulations issued under the Communications Act that apply to
operations or activities of any provider of telecommunications service and to repeal or modify any
regulation it determines to be "no longer necessary in the public interest."  In particular, the Act directs the
Commission to determine whether any such regulation is no longer necessary "as the result of meaningful
economic competition between providers of such service."  Accordingly, the Commission initiated a
comprehensive 1998 biennial review to identify regulations that are overly burdensome or no longer serve
the public interest.

     4.  The International Bureau conducted a public forum and many informal meetings with interested
members of the community to seek ideas for ways to simplify, streamline, and eliminate burdens on the
industry and the Commission.  The Commission then issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in which we
proposed several deregulatory initiatives.  We proposed to streamline and simplify the international
Section 214 application rules and to eliminate several categories of international Section 214 applications. 
Twenty-three parties filed comments, and those comments have helped us refine our proposals to ensure
that we provide all the relief possible while retaining sufficient mechanisms to protect the public interest.

     5.  The great majority of commenters supported our proposals.  Comments filed by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Department of Defense (DoD), however, raised objections to some of
our proposals to forego review of certain Section 214 applications and to disregard changes in carriers'
corporate form.  The FBI and DoD made both legal and policy arguments and contended that, despite the
progression of meaningful economic competition between carriers, it remains important to continue to
review some applications and transactions due to national security, law enforcement, and other
considerations.  We have worked with representatives of the Executive Branch to reconcile the need to
protect their public interest concerns with the need to remove unnecessary barriers to an effectively
functioning market.  We conclude that the measures we adopt in this order successfully reconcile these
interests while granting the industry nearly as much regulatory relief as our original proposals.

     6.  We now adopt initiatives that enable us to  
  
            (1)  Eliminate the requirement that opposed applications be granted by formal written order
       and reduce the waiting period for granting new streamlined applications from 35 days to
       14 days.
  
            (2)  Expand the class of applications eligible for streamlined processing.
  
            (3)  Eliminate the requirement for prior approval of pro forma assignments and transfers of
       control of Section 214 authorizations.
  
            (4)  Allow authorized carriers to provide service through wholly-owned subsidiaries without
       prior approval, and allow applicants to use the streamlined authorization process to obtain
       the same authorizations that any affiliates with the identical ownership have already
       obtained.
  
            (5)  Allow any authorized facilities-based carrier to use any non-U.S.-licensed undersea cable
       system without specific approval.
  
            (6)  Authorize the use of private lines to provide switched services by declaratory ruling
       instead of requiring a Section 214 application.
  
            (7)  Reorganize, clarify, and simplify the rules applicable to international Section 214
       authorizations.

     7.  The global telecommunications market is changing rapidly in response to technological
innovation, market liberalization, deregulation, privatization, and accelerating competition.  The
Commission continues to look for opportunities to remove regulatory obstacles to a fully competitive
marketplace while retaining the appropriate ability to detect and deter anticompetitive conduct.  This order
is but one in a series of deregulatory and streamlining steps the Commission has taken in this area since the
founding of the International Bureau in 1994.  We look forward to continued public participation in this
process, and we intend to again review these rules as part of our next biennial review in 2000.

                 II.  Discussion of Rule Changes

A.  International Section 214 Authorizations

     1.  Streamlined authorization procedure

     8.  In the Notice, we proposed to grant a blanket Section 214 authorization for the provision of
international telecommunications services on routes where a carrier providing service to or from the United
States is not affiliated with a carrier that operates in the destination market.  Our proposal would have
allowed new entrants to provide service on those "unaffiliated routes" without prior approval, provided that
they notify the Commission within 30 days after beginning to provide such service.  We proposed to issue a
certification (pursuant to Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended) that it would serve
the public interest, convenience, and necessity to authorize carriers pursuant to such a procedure.

     9.  We affirm our tentative conclusion that the great majority of international Section 214
applications do not raise public interest issues that warrant Commission scrutiny.  For the reasons
described below, however, we conclude that we should not adopt a blanket authorization as proposed in the
Notice, but should instead adopt a further streamlined authorization procedure that is narrowly tailored to
allow us to review applications in advance without causing needless delay or uncertainty.  In sum, we
modify our streamlined process by eliminating the current requirement that streamlined applications be
removed from streamlining in the event that an opposition is filed.  Our initial public notice listing
streamlined applications that have been accepted for filing will not solicit comments from the public but
will only provide notice of the date on which the applications will be granted unless an applicant is notified
to the contrary.  We also shorten from 35 days to 14 days from the initial public notice the period after
which applications are automatically granted.  Finally, we expand the class of applications eligible for
streamlined processing by including applications filed by carriers seeking to provide service on a route
where an affiliated foreign carrier has no facilities, or only mobile wireless facilities, in the destination
market.

     10.  Henceforth, for those applications eligible for streamlined processing, we will follow a simpler
and faster procedure.  Upon receipt of the application, we will send copies of applications, as appropriate,
to the relevant Executive Branch departments.  The staff of the International Bureau will also review the
application to determine whether it is complete and eligible for streamlined processing.  If an application is
deemed incomplete and not acceptable for filing, the staff will notify the applicant and give the applicant an
opportunity to provide the missing information.  Once an application is deemed complete and eligible for
streamlined processing, the Commission will issue a public notice noting that the application has been
accepted for filing and will be subject to streamlined processing pursuant to Section 63.12.

     11.  The public notice listing streamlined applications as acceptable for filing will indicate that the
listed applications will be deemed granted 14 days after the date of the public notice unless the applicant is
notified to the contrary.  If, during that 14-day waiting period, the Commission staff determines that an
application should not be granted through the streamlined process, it will notify the applicant in writing that
the application has been removed from streamlined processing.  Otherwise, an application will be deemed
granted 14 days after the initial public notice, and the applicant may begin operating on the 15th day.  As is
the current practice with respect to streamlined applications, the International Bureau will issue a weekly
public notice of carriers newly authorized pursuant to this procedure.  We also amend Section 63.12(d) to
ensure that an application that is not subject to streamlined processing may be granted without a formal
written order if it is unnecessary to address any significant issues in writing or to impose any conditions
that require written explanation.

     12.  We have, in the past, stated that applications that qualify for streamlined processing do not
generally raise public interest issues because, in those cases, our generally applicable safeguards, the
benchmark settlement rate condition, and dominant carrier regulations (where applicable)   rather than
denial of applications   will be sufficient to prevent anticompetitive effects in the U.S. market.  Based on
the record in this proceeding, we reaffirm this finding and further conclude that there is no reason to
routinely seek comment on competitive or other issues that parties may seek to raise in the context of
streamlined applications.  The likelihood that the Commission would deem a competitive or other issue
raised by a commenter sufficiently serious to warrant denying a streamlined application is so remote that
the potential benefits of seeking such comment are outweighed by the real benefits of eliminating the
possibility that such comments would render an application ineligible for streamlining.  These real benefits
include a shorter period of time from filing an application to grant of the application and, significantly, the
added certainty that an applicant would have as a result of knowing that its application cannot be held up
by a vaguely drafted petition to deny filed by its competitors.

     13.  Furthermore, commenters have stated in the record of this proceeding, and have told us in
other contexts, that having to wait 35 days before being permitted to provide service is a substantial burden
and, combined with the uncertainty about whether an application will be opposed and therefore removed
from the streamlined process, substantially interferes with new carriers' ability to provide new services and
respond quickly to market developments.  Although the current streamlined process is itself a product of
earlier deregulatory, streamlining initiatives, it is nevertheless our continuing obligation to remove
unnecessary barriers to competitive market conditions.  We therefore conclude pursuant to Section 11(a)(2)
of the Communications Act that, as a result of meaningful economic competition in international
telecommunications, it is no longer necessary in the public interest to deny streamlined processing to an
application that has been opposed.

     14.  After reviewing the record, however, we are unable to conclude that prior review of
international Section 214 applications is no longer necessary.  Instead, we find that a 14-day period of
review is necessary before we can grant an application.  Such a period of prior review will enable
Commission staff to identify exceptional applications that raise public interest concerns within the scope of
current Commission policies.  For example, the FBI has raised concerns that U.S. national security and law
enforcement interests could be jeopardized by the provision of telecommunications services by entities
whose interests may be contrary to those of the United States.  According to the FBI, a particular carrier
could jeopardize a national security or law enforcement investigation if the carrier has a relationship with
the subject of the investigation.  The FBI argues that the regulatory safeguards that we relied upon in the
Notice to justify foregoing prior review of applications concern only economic and competition matters and
do not address national security and law enforcement concerns.

     15.  In the Foreign Participation Order, we concluded that national security, law enforcement,
foreign policy, and trade policy considerations remained relevant to our public interest analysis of whether
to grant or deny an international Section 214 authorization.  We recognized that other government
agencies have specific expertise in matters that may be relevant in particular cases and that our public
interest analysis would benefit from input by those agencies.  We therefore stated that we would continue to
"consider any such legitimate concerns as we undertake our own independent analyses of whether grant of a
particular application is in the public interest."  We emphasized that we expected such concerns to be
raised only in very rare circumstances, and that we would always undertake our own independent
evaluation of each application.  Consistent with that policy, we conclude that these important interests
should continue to be addressed, to the extent possible, by our procedures for authorizing providers of
international telecommunications services.  Therefore, the procedure we now adopt will afford Executive
Branch agencies an appropriate opportunity to raise these considerations in the context of individual
applications.

     16.  Reviewing applications before authorization also will allow Commission staff to identify
applications that are not complete, that do not qualify for streamlined processing, or that may raise
extraordinary issues suggesting a need for public comment.  AT&T argues, for example, that even some
small investments by foreign carriers with market power may require Commission scrutiny.  Our decision
to continue to require submission of applications in advance also addresses concerns raised by some
commenters that a post-commencement notification requirement might be taken less seriously by new
carriers than a pre-certification application.  This procedure will help ensure that carriers are aware that
they are subject to the Commission's rules regarding the provision of international telecommunications
services.  For all of these reasons, we conclude, pursuant to Section 11(a)(2) of the Communications Act,
that the existing procedure is no longer "necessary in the public interest as the result of meaningful
economic competition between providers of such service," and, pursuant to Section 11(b), we modify the
procedure accordingly.

     17.  In the Notice, we tentatively concluded that, in light of our proposal for a blanket international
Section 214 authorization, forbearance from requiring international Section 214 authorizations for any
class of applicants pursuant to Section 10 of the Communications Act was not the preferred approach. 
Section 10 requires the Commission to forbear from applying any regulation or provision of the Act to a
telecommunications carrier or service, or class of telecommunications carriers or services, if the
Commission determines that all three of the following criteria are met:
  
            (1)  enforcement of such regulation or provision is not necessary to ensure that the charges,
       practices, classifications, or regulations by, for, or in connection with that
       telecommunications carrier or telecommunications service are just and reasonable and are
       not unjustly or unreasonably discriminatory;
  
            (2)  enforcement of such regulation or provision is not necessary for the protection of
       consumers; and
  
            (3)  forbearance from applying such provision or regulation is consistent with the public
       interest.

In determining whether the third prong of the forbearance standard is met, the Commission must consider
whether forbearance from enforcing the provision will promote competitive market conditions, including the
extent to which forbearance would enhance competition among providers of telecommunications services.

     18.  With regard to the first two prongs of the forbearance test, based on our drastic streamlining
of the Section 214 process it is apparent that strict review of international Section 214 applications is not
necessary to ensure reasonable and nondiscriminatory rates, terms, and conditions or to protect consumers. 
We also find that, except in limited circumstances of affiliations with dominant foreign carriers,
enforcement of Section 214 is not necessary under the first two prongs.  In evaluating the third prong  
the public interest prong   there is considerable merit to arguments that forbearance from requiring
international Section 214 authorizations would promote competitive market conditions and would enhance
competition between carriers in the international services market.  The absence of any waiting period, and
the absence of any need for carriers to signal to competitors that they intend to provide international
services, would allow carriers more easily to enter the market and challenge existing carriers' prices and
service offerings.  Nevertheless, we find that the extent to which forbearance, instead of the 14-day process
we adopt here, would promote competition is substantially outweighed by the other public interest
considerations discussed earlier.  That is, an opportunity for prior streamlined review will enable
Commission staff and applicable Executive Branch agencies to identify individual applications that, despite
the existence of meaningful economic competition in the marketplace, may raise other public interest
concerns.  Those concerns include the national security and law enforcement considerations discussed
above.  In addition, as we stated in the Notice, it is important to continue to require that service be provided
only pursuant to an authorization that can be conditioned or revoked for enforcement purposes.  Given
these other public interest considerations as well as the fact that we will be able to grant applications 14
days after public notice regardless of whether any comments are filed, we conclude that forbearance
would not be consistent with the public interest.  Therefore, the third prong of the Section 10 forbearance
standard is not satisfied.

          2.  Applications eligible for streamlined processing

     19.  We initially proposed that the blanket authorization procedure would apply only to a non-
dominant carrier's provision of any international service on unaffiliated routes.  This proposal was based on
the tentative conclusion that our regulatory safeguards are sufficient so that in no case would we need to
deny, in the first instance, an application to provide services on unaffiliated routes.  We sought comment on
whether there was a smaller or larger class of carriers or services for which the blanket authorization would
be appropriate, and we asked whether it would be possible to identify a class of affiliations that are equally
unlikely to raise public interest concerns and, therefore, should not require prior Commission review.

     20.  Because we are not granting a blanket authorization, some of the reasons for limiting our
proposal to unaffiliated routes are no longer of concern.  We now conclude that we will apply our revised
streamlined procedure to all international Section 214 applications that currently qualify for streamlining,
as well as to applications to serve affiliated routes where the affiliate has no facilities, or only mobile
wireless facilities, at the foreign end of the route.  It is, therefore, unnecessary for us to maintain three
different authorization procedures depending on the type of international Section 214 authorization   one
for non-streamlined applications, one for streamlined applications, and one for authorizations granted under
a new blanket authorization procedure.  This will substantially reduce administrative burdens and promote
certainty and clarity.

     21.  We have often held that our primary concern in the context of international telecommunica-

tions is that a foreign carrier with market power on the foreign end of an international route may have the
ability to leverage that market power into the U.S. market to the detriment of competition and consumers. 
A carrier with market power on the foreign end of a route that owns a substantial equity interest in a U.S.
carrier (or that is owned in substantial part by a U.S. carrier) may have the ability and incentive to
discriminate in favor of that U.S. carrier and against other U.S. carriers.  However, where the possibility of
leveraging foreign market power to harm competition in the United States is very unlikely (e.g., because the
applicant does not have an affiliation with a foreign carrier or because the affiliated foreign carrier clearly
lacks market power), there generally is no need to review the competitive implications of the application.

     22.  In the past few years, we have developed a streamlined process for granting international
Section 214 applications that generally are not expected to raise public interest concerns.  The class of
applications eligible for streamlined processing has consistently grown over those years, particularly with
the implementation of the World Trade Organization (WTO) Basic Telecommunications Services
Agreement and our revised competitive safeguards.  In determining the categories of applications to which
our newly revised streamlined authorization process should apply, we first conclude that any application
that is currently eligible for streamlined processing should be subject to our revised streamlined procedure
in which public comment will not be sought, and petitions to deny will not be entertained, on competitive or
other issues.  Streamlined applications currently include:

                   applications to serve unaffiliated routes;
                   applications to serve affiliated routes where the affiliated foreign carrier has already been found to
          lack market power;
                   applications to serve affiliated routes where the affiliated foreign carrier has less than a 50 percent
          market share in the international transport and local access markets in the destination country;
                   applications to serve affiliated routes where the foreign affiliate is from a WTO country if the
          applicant seeks to serve that country solely by reselling the switched services of unaffiliated U.S.
          international carriers;
                   applications not otherwise eligible for streamlining if the affiliate is a foreign carrier in a WTO
          country and the applicant certifies that it will comply with our dominant carrier regulations for the
          affiliated route; and
                   applications to assign or transfer control of an international Section 214 authorization where an
          initial Section 214 application filed by the assignee or transferee would be eligible for streamlined
          processing.

     23.  We have concluded in other proceedings that these classes of applications do not generally
raise public interest concerns and, therefore, need not generally be subject to individual scrutiny and formal
written orders.  Our experience with our streamlined procedure has shown that applications eligible for
streamlined processing are very rarely opposed, and those that are opposed are very rarely denied or
conditioned.  Based on the record of this proceeding, we now find that the benefits of public comment on
the competitive or other implications of these applications are substantially outweighed by the benefits of
eliminating the possibility that such comment may render an application ineligible for streamlining. 
Furthermore, including all streamlined applications within this new streamlined procedure will eliminate the
need to maintain two or more different "streamlined" processes.  We therefore conclude that the
applications that would qualify for streamlined processing under our current rules do not generally pose
such a risk to competition or raise such other public interest concerns that we should routinely seek public
comment or entertain petitions to deny.  

     24.  Included within this class of streamlined applications are some assignments and transfers of
control of international Section 214 authorizations.  An assignment or transfer of control may raise
competitive or other issues that warrant Commission review, but the vast majority do not.  In fact, our
experience since the Foreign Participation Order has been that no assignment or transfer application that
the staff has initially designated for streamlined processing has ever been opposed on the grounds that it
would tend to create or reinforce market power or to facilitate its exercise.  Furthermore, it is highly likely
that any application that does raise competitive issues would also involve assignments or transfers of
control of submarine cable landing licenses or Title III radio licenses.  Any application that includes an
assignment or transfer of a cable landing license or a Title III license will continue to be subject to public
notice-and-comment procedures.

     25.  Although we conclude that these categories of applications generally should be subject to our
revised streamlined procedure, we delegate to the International Bureau the authority to identify those
particular applications that do warrant public comment and additional Commission scrutiny under current
stated Commission policies.  For example, additional scrutiny may be required where an application may
present a significant potential adverse impact on competition, or where an assignment or transfer of
control could eliminate a significant current or future competitor.  In fact, because this process gives the
staff an opportunity to identify any extraordinary applications that may warrant public comment, we are
able to include within this procedure a broader class of applications than if we were to adopt an approach,
such as the proposed blanket authorization, that would have relied upon applicants to determine whether
they qualify for the authorization.  Absent such concerns, we find that grant of Section 214 authority under
these circumstances will serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity.

     26.  We note that the Commission's ex parte rules will continue to apply to any informal communi-

cations concerning streamlined applications between outside parties and Commission staff   that is, any
such informal communications must be served on the applicant or filed with the Secretary of the
Commission.  Any such informal communications will not, however, result in an application being
deemed ineligible for streamlined processing.  An application can be removed from streamlined processing
only in the sound discretion of Commission staff.

     27.  MCI opposed expanding the proposed blanket authorization to include any affiliated routes on
the grounds that foreign affiliations raise unique concerns and the Commission should take an incremental
approach.  Because we are not adopting the blanket authorization, MCI's concerns are not as relevant. 
The streamlined procedure we adopt will give us the opportunity to review all applications to serve
affiliated routes prior to authorization.  Part of the review process will include determining whether an
applicant with foreign affiliations is eligible for streamlined processing either because the affiliate lacks
market power or because the affiliate is in a WTO member country and the applicant agrees to be regulated
as dominant.

     28.  We believe that it would be helpful to applicants if we can identify additional clearly defined
classes of affiliations to which we will apply our streamlined procedure.  It is important to draw bright lines
so that it will be clear to potential applicants which routes are eligible for this streamlined process.  We
cannot, as some have suggested, allow the applicants themselves to determine which affiliated foreign
carriers lack market power.  Market power is often a complex, fact-driven determination about which
applicants, in good faith, and the Commission may draw different conclusions.  Qwest suggests that the
Commission consider establishing a procedure whereby carriers may file a petition for declaratory ruling
that a foreign carrier lacks market power.  Accordingly, we will accept petitions for declaratory ruling
that a foreign carrier lacks sufficient market power to affect competition adversely in the U.S. market.  A
declaratory ruling issued by the Commission may be cited in an applicant's Section 214 application for the
purpose of establishing its eligibility for streamlined authorization on the affiliated route.

     29.  We find that it is unlikely that a carrier that does not own or control telecommunications
facilities in a proposed destination foreign market would have sufficient market power to affect competition
adversely in the U.S. market.  As we recognized in the International Services Order, there appears to be
no substantial risk of discrimination against unaffiliated U.S. carriers by a foreign carrier that does not own
or control any telecommunications facilities in the affiliated market.  We have been presented with no case
where we have found that a foreign carrier operating solely on a resale basis has sufficient market power to
affect competition adversely in the U.S. market.  We also clarify here our position that, as a general rule,
the ownership or control of switching facilities does not by itself present a substantial risk of
discrimination.  We believe that market power will generally exist only if a carrier also owns or controls
transport capacity.  Thus, for example, an application from a carrier whose affiliate owns only switching
facilities in a foreign market would be eligible for streamlined processing.  We also have been presented
with no case where we have found that a foreign carrier with only mobile wireless facilities (and no wireline
facilities) has sufficient market power to affect competition adversely in the U.S. market.  Our conclusion
that both types of service providers are unlikely to raise market power concerns is supported by several
commenters.  We reserve the right to revisit these conclusions if necessary, particularly if the use of
mobile wireless units in foreign markets expands so rapidly that mobile wireless carriers may be able to
exercise bottleneck control over terminating international telecommunications.  The rule we now adopt will
codify our findings and allow applicants to take advantage of our streamlined authorization procedure to
become authorized to provide service between the United States and foreign points on a non-dominant basis
where affiliated carriers have no facilities (other than switching facilities) or only mobile wireless
facilities.

     30.  CompTel suggests that we include in our modified authorization procedures applications to
serve affiliated routes where the affiliated foreign carrier does not provide international services to or from
the United States.  As WorldCom and MCI point out, however, such a carrier may nevertheless control
bottleneck facilities in the foreign market (such as intercity or local exchange access facilities) that can be
leveraged to harm competition in the U.S. market.  GTE suggests that we include all affiliates that operate
in WTO member countries that have liberalized in accordance with their market opening commitments. 
Adopting GTE's proposal either would require a lengthy and difficult fact-finding procedure to determine
compliance with WTO commitments or would require leaving the determination to applicants' own
subjective judgment.  Therefore, applicants falling into either the situation described by CompTel or that
described by GTE will not be eligible for streamlined processing unless they meet one of the other criteria
listed in Section 63.12.

     31.  We reject suggestions by AT&T and MCI to limit the applicability of our new procedures. 
AT&T argues that applications involving dominant foreign carrier interests of 10 percent and above should
remain subject to our existing notice-and-comment procedures.  Any noncontrolling interest of 25 percent
or below falls outside the definition of affiliation that we have used since the 1995 Foreign Carrier Entry
Order.  AT&T is thus arguing that some interests that do not rise to the level of an affiliation should
nevertheless remain subject to our current notice-and-comment procedures.

     32.  We have set our affiliation standard to the level of equity interest in a U.S. carrier below
which, we have previously concluded, there is rarely a sufficient incentive to discriminate in favor of the
affiliated carrier.  We have thus defined affiliation as a greater than 25 percent interest, or a controlling
interest at any level, by a foreign carrier in a U.S. carrier or by a U.S. carrier in a foreign carrier.  In the
Foreign Participation Order, we reaffirmed the 25-percent affiliation standard and further liberalized our
policies by eliminating the requirement that authorized carriers submit prior notification to the Commission
of new 10-percent ownership interests by foreign carriers.  Now, authorized carriers must report an
investment in or by a foreign carrier only if it results in an "affiliation," which generally means a controlling
investment or an investment over 25 percent.  In that order, we found that "a foreign carrier's investment
in an authorized carrier will very rarely raise any public interest issues unless it creates an affiliation." 
AT&T points out that we found, in the Foreign Carrier Entry Order and the Foreign Participation Order,
that we would continue to scrutinize investments lower than 25 percent that might nevertheless pose a
significant potential impact on competition.  Based on our experience with the affiliation standard,
however, we believe that these situations would be sufficiently rare that they do not outweigh the public
interest benefits of including all unaffiliated carriers within our revised streamlined authorization
procedure.

     33.  We note, also, that we will continue to require applicants to identify all ten-percent-or-greater
direct and indirect equity owners in their initial applications.  Furthermore, our definition of affiliation
continues to include any controlling interest, even if that interest is below 25 percent.  Finally, because
Commission staff will have discretion to seek public comment on an extraordinary application that would
otherwise qualify for streamlined processing, we are confident that the streamlined procedures we adopt
here strike the appropriate balance between preventing anticompetitive effects and promoting swift and
certain market entry.

     34.  MCI argues that the Commission should continue to require prior notice-and-comment
procedures when an applicant seeks authority to provide international services from any region in the
United States in which it has bottleneck control over local facilities.  Such carriers, MCI argues, may have
the ability to leverage their control over local facilities to harm competition in the U.S. international
services market.

     35.  We are not persuaded that there is any public interest reason to adopt a general rule
maintaining prior public notice-and-comment procedures for international Section 214 applications filed by
local exchange carriers (LECs) that otherwise qualify for streamlined processing.  We reach this conclusion
with respect to both the Bell Operating Companies (BOCs) and the non-BOC independent local exchange
carriers (ILECs) for services originating in their local exchange service areas.

     36.  With respect to international Section 214 applications filed by the BOCs, we note that Section
271 of the Communications Act, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996, prohibits the
BOCs from providing interLATA services that originate in their respective in-region states until the
Commission finds that they have satisfied the requirements of that section.  As we have previously
recognized, international service is interLATA service subject to the requirements of Section 271.  A
BOC will not, therefore, be permitted to take advantage of the streamlined procedure to obtain
authorization to provide international services from any of its in-region states until the Commission
approves its Section 271 application to provide interLATA services from that state.  MCI has not presented
any basis for us to conclude that, once we have made the requisite findings to support a grant of in-region
interLATA authority, there will be any additional public interest issues of relevance for us to consider other
than those raised by a BOC's affiliation with a foreign carrier in a proposed destination market or issues
that may be raised by the Executive Branch.  The sole public interest issue that MCI has raised to date with
respect to BOC provision of international service (other than issues directly relevant to the Section 271
inquiry) is BOC "grooming" of international return traffic.  MCI has expressed concern that, under such an
arrangement, a BOC could negotiate to receive from its foreign carrier correspondents U.S.-inbound return
traffic that terminates specifically in the BOC's in-region states.  MCI claims that the BOC would thus
keep any settlement payment and not have to pay terminating access charges to another local carrier.  As
we recently noted in the BOC Out-of-Region Interexchange Services Order, the grooming described by
MCI would be subject to prior Commission approval under our International Settlements Policy (ISP).  As
we also noted there, we have requested comment in another rulemaking proceeding whether grooming
arrangements present a potential for anticompetitive effects, "particularly with respect to arrangements
between foreign carriers with market power and incumbent local exchange carriers."  In the event MCI, or
any other interested party, discerns a need for particular conditions to govern the BOCs' provision of
international service (other than those already applied to them by the Communications Act and our rules),
we believe that other proceedings provide a better opportunity for developing a full record on the merits of
imposing additional regulations.

     37.  With respect to the non-BOC ILECs, we have issued numerous grants of international Section
214 authority to these carriers, and their applications have rarely been opposed for reasons related to an
ILEC's control of local exchange and exchange access facilities.  In the highly unusual circumstance of a
contested application, petitioners' allegations have focused primarily on carrier practices that are addressed
by statutory obligations under Title II of the Communications Act and existing rules and regulations
implementing those provisions of the Act.  We see no reason to maintain notice-and-comment procedures
for all ILEC applications that would otherwise be streamlined when we have ample enforcement authority
over these carriers' provision of interstate access services and facilities.  We also find that our enforcement
procedures are the more appropriate forum for addressing allegations of ILEC misconduct because any
such misconduct is likely to affect interexchange carrier provision of international and interstate, domestic
interexchange service.

     38.  We sought comment on whether our conclusions should apply equally to commercial mobile
radio service (CMRS) licensees.  PCIA and others argue that the Commission should forbear altogether
from imposing Section 214 requirements for CMRS operators' provision of international service on
unaffiliated routes and for CMRS operators' resale of unaffiliated U.S. carriers' services on all routes. 
However, the public interest concerns discussed above as reasons for maintaining prior review of all
international Section 214 applications apply equally to CMRS licensees.  Therefore, for the same reasons
and in the same manner as for other classes of carriers, and pursuant to Section 11(a)(2), we find that our
existing Section 214 authorization procedures as applied to CMRS providers are no longer necessary in the
public interest as a result of meaningful economic cooperation between providers.  Also, we find that the
modified procedure that we adopt pursuant to Section 11(b) should apply equally to CMRS providers.

     39.  We also find that our decision not to forbear pursuant to Section 10 from requiring
international Section 214 authorizations for any class of applicants applies equally to CMRS providers. 
We note that competition among CMRS providers has increased significantly, and forbearance from
requiring Section 214 authorizations for the provision of international services by CMRS licensees might
further enhance competition in this market by allowing CMRS licensees to begin providing international
services without obtaining any further authorizations.  Nevertheless, the extent to which forbearance would
enhance competition is substantially outweighed by the public interest considerations discussed earlier.  In
particular, prior review is needed to address the national security and law enforcement concerns raised by
the Executive Branch.  We note that the streamlined authorization procedure and other deregulatory
initiatives that we adopt in this order will relieve CMRS carriers of substantial regulatory burdens.  Almost
any CMRS carrier that plans to provide international services will be able to obtain a global authorization
14 days after public notice regardless of whether public comment has been filed.  A global authorization,
moreover, does not provide specific signals to competitors about the services to be offered or when service
will be initiated.

     40.  Accordingly, we find that the public interest, convenience, and necessity would be served by
authorizing telecommunications carriers to provide international service pursuant to the procedures and
standards described in this section and codified in Sections 63.12 and 63.20 of the Commission's rules.

B.  Forbearance from Pro Forma Assignments and Transfers of Control

     41.  In the Notice, we proposed to allow carriers to undertake pro forma assignments and transfers
of control of international Section 214 authorizations without Commission approval.  We proposed to
create a new rule to define pro forma for this purpose as a transaction that fits within certain defined
categories and results in no substantial change in ownership or control of the carrier or its authorization. 
We proposed to require Commission notification within 30 days of pro forma assignments but not to
require any notification of pro forma transfers of control.

     42.  We tentatively concluded in the Notice that forbearance from reviewing pro forma
assignments and transfers of control would meet the forbearance standard in Section 10 of the
Communications Act.  No commenter disputes this tentative conclusion, and several parties express
support.  Regulatory review of these transactions yields no significant public interest benefits, but may
delay or hinder transactions that could provide substantial financial, operational, or administrative benefits
to carriers.  We therefore adopt our proposal to forbear from reviewing pro forma assignments and
transfers of control of international Section 214 authorizations for the reasons expressed in the Notice.

     43.  We also adopt our tentative conclusions that post-consummation notification should be
required for pro forma assignments but not for transfers of control.  Ameritech agrees with our tentative
conclusion that post-consummation notification is necessary for assignments and is not unduly
burdensome.  Primus argues that there is no value in requiring notification of pro forma assignments and
that such a requirement would impose an unnecessary burden.  As we stated in the Notice, we believe that
it is important to maintain complete and current records of the identities of authorized international
carriers.  As we reduce barriers to market entry, we must ensure that we are able to enforce our post-entry
rules, and the ability to identify carriers providing service in the market is important to those enforcement
efforts.  No such identity change results from a pro forma transfer of control, but it does result from an
assignment.  The carriers' notifications will be used only to ensure that there is an accurate public record of
the identity of every authorized carrier.  These records may be necessary, for example, to verify whether
carriers are submitting the reports that are required by Commission rules.  We will periodically issue public
notice of these assignments.

     44.  Primus suggests, in the alternative, that we require notification of assignments to be included
in other reports routinely filed with the Commission, such as the annual traffic-and-revenue report required
by Section 43.61 of the Commission's rules.  Requiring notification of assignments in other routine reports
would allow as much as a year to pass before the information is available to the Commission and to the
public.  In order to verify compliance with reporting requirements, and in order to maintain more current
records, we believe that it would better serve the public interest to require notification within 30 days of
consummation of the assignment.  We therefore adopt our tentative conclusion.

     45.  Primus seeks clarification that the new rule would apply to "(1) assignments between a parent
and subsidiary even if intervening subsidiaries exist, (2) assignments and transfers arising out of the
reincorporation in a new state, (3) mere name changes, and (4) changes in the form of the business entity
(such as change from a partnership, an LLC or LLP to a corporation) as long as the underlying controlling
ownership does not change."  We agree that such transactions are "nonsubstantial" and should not require
prior Commission approval.  To address the first situation, we will insert "direct or indirect" in paragraph
(a)(5) of Section 63.24.  We will insert a parenthetical in paragraph (a)(4) to address the second and fourth
situations.  The third situation, a name change, is not an assignment or transfer of control, and it will be
addressed by Section 63.21(j), which will provide that an authorized carrier may change its name without
prior approval but shall notify the Commission within 30 days.

C.  Provision of Service by Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries

     46.  In the Notice, we proposed to allow any authorized international carrier to provide its
authorized services through any wholly-owned subsidiaries.  Our proposed rule would state that an
international Section 214 authorization applies to the entity holding the authorization, as well as any
wholly-owned subsidiaries.  We emphasized that this provision should not be used to circumvent any
structural-separation provision of the Commission's rules and sought comment on whether it would do so.

     47.  Commenters expressed widespread support for this proposal.  As Iridium stated, "[f]or a
variety of commercial reasons, it is customary for a provider of international telecommunications services
to operate through subsidiaries in individual markets."  No commenter suggested that such a provision
would defeat any of the Commission's structural-separation requirements, and we believe that the rule as
proposed would not do so.  We reiterate that commercial reasons such as those cited by Iridium would not
raise any new issues suggesting a need for Commission review if the subsidiaries are subject to exactly the
same ownership.  A wholly-owned subsidiary could have no affiliations that its parent does not have, and
review of its application would provide no new information for the purpose of a national security, law
enforcement, or foreign policy evaluation.  We therefore adopt our proposal, with the modifications
discussed below, as a new paragraph (i) of Section 63.21.

     48.  The rule we adopt will, however, require any subsidiary operating pursuant to its parent's
authorization to notify the Commission by letter within 30 days after beginning to provide service.  As we
discuss elsewhere in this Report and Order, it is important to our enforcement efforts to be able to identify
every company that is authorized to provide international telecommunications services.  This notification
requirement does not add a significant burden and will not significantly delay the provision of new services. 
In response to Primus's request, we confirm that the provision that we now adopt applies even when the
subsidiary uses a different operating name.

     49.  Primus also seeks confirmation that a subsidiary may be held indirectly through intervening
100-percent-owned entities and still operate pursuant to the authority of its parent.  We confirm that this
would be our policy and clarify Section 63.21(i) by referring to "direct or indirect" subsidiaries.

     50.  We emphasize that allowing authorized international carriers to provide international services
through wholly-owned subsidiaries must not be used to circumvent any structural separation that may be
required by any current or future Commission rules, such as the requirement in Section 63.10 that carriers
regulated as dominant for the provision of service on an international route must provide service through an
entity that is separate from its affiliated foreign carrier.  Carriers should also be advised that Section
63.21(i) authorizes only 100-percent-owned subsidiaries, and that if, at any time, such a subsidiary is no
longer 100-percent owned by the authorized carrier, it may not operate without first obtaining its own
authorization pursuant to Section 63.18.

     51.  Primus also asks that we clarify whether separate subsidiaries will continue to be required to
maintain separate tariffs or to file concurrences in their parent's tariffs.  Primus "recommends that carriers
be given the choice to maintain separate tariffs, concur in an affiliate's tariff, or share in an affiliate's tariff
by including sections in the tariff setting forth rates and other terms specific to each operating subsidiary's
offerings."  Part 61 of the Commission's rules includes two rules permitting common carriers (which
would include affiliates) to concur in another common carrier's tariff:  (1) Concurrences are permitted for
"through" services that are jointly provided by two or more carriers.  In this case, the issuing carrier's
tariff can either specify the concurring carrier's rates and regulations or specify where those rates and
regulations can be found.  (2) Concurrences for other purposes are permitted when an issuing carrier's
tariff specifies the concurring carrier's rates and points of service if they are different from the issuing
carrier's rates and points of service.  We believe that these rules provide sufficient flexibility for wholly-
owned subsidiaries operating pursuant to their parents' authorizations.  Primus does not explain its
"sharing" proposal in detail sufficient to enable us to discern the difference, if any, between its proposal and
the concurrences permitted under Part 61 of our rules.

     52.  GTE asks that the Commission clarify that any reporting could be consolidated into a single
filing.  GTE's proposal may have merit with respect to certain reporting requirements, but the proposal is
not specific enough, nor is the record sufficiently developed, to address GTE's proposal here.  We direct the
Common Carrier Bureau and International Bureau to consider whether revisions to the filing manuals for
Sections 43.61 and 43.82 are necessary to clarify the circumstances in which carriers may consolidate their
international traffic and revenue reports and circuit status reports.  GTE is also free to raise this issue in
other relevant proceedings.

     53.  Other commenters urge us to expand the proposal so that any commonly-owned affiliates and
subsidiaries   including "parent" companies and "sister" subsidiaries   could share a single Section 214
authorization.  Cable & Wireless's proposal would allow a sister subsidiary to obtain a separate
authorization by filing a notification letter listing the Commission orders upon which it is relying.  Cable &
Wireless states that the notification letter would raise no new issues and could be granted by Commission
staff simply by stamping the letter granted and not issuing a formal written order.  In opposition, AT&T
argues that these proposals would potentially extend Section 214 authorizations to large numbers of foreign
carriers in different countries without any review of the separate issues that may be raised by their
authorization.

     54.  We conclude that no new issues are raised when a company with exactly the same ownership
as an authorized carrier seeks Commission authorization to provide the same international services.  We do,
however, find that a separate authorization should be required when the company seeking authority to
provide service is not controlled by the carrier whose authorization it seeks to use.  We therefore decline to
include so-called "sisters" and "parents" within the scope of Section 63.21(i).  However, we will grant some
regulatory relief by allowing any entity that seeks authority to provide the same international services,
subject to the same conditions, that have already been authorized for a company with the same ownership
to utilize the streamlined authorization procedure; it would therefore not be subject to public comment.

     55.  Carriers should also be aware that they may take advantage of the pro forma assignment
procedure to assign an authorization to a parent company.  Following the assignment, the originally
authorized carrier and any other wholly-owned subsidiaries of the parent can operate pursuant to Section
63.21(i).

     56.  GTE asks us to permit partnerships in which the carrier has a controlling interest to be able to
operate pursuant to the carrier's authorization.  We agree with MCI that a controlling interest that does
not amount to 100-percent ownership may raise additional issues, such as additional foreign affiliations
or minority ownership or beneficial interest by persons or entities who are barred from holding a
Commission authorization.

D.  Use of Non-U.S.-Licensed Facilities

     57.  In the Notice, we proposed to allow any carrier authorized to provide facilities-based services
to use any undersea cable system to provide its authorized services.  Several commenters expressed
support for this proposal, and no commenter opposed it.

     58.  Under our current rules, a carrier authorized to provide "global" facilities-based services may
use any facilities in its provision of its authorized services except as provided on the "Exclusion List for
International Section 214 Authorizations," a list maintained by the International Bureau.  A current version
of the exclusion list is included as part of each public notice that lists granted streamlined Section 214
applications and is available in the International Bureau's Reference Center and on the Commission's Web
site.  A carrier with a global facilities-based authorization may not use non-U.S.-licensed facilities unless
and until it has received specific prior approval or the Commission generally approves the use of those
facilities and so indicates on the exclusion list.  In the Notice, we tentatively concluded that there is no
longer any reason for a blanket prohibition on the use of non-U.S.-licensed undersea cable systems.

     59.  Since we adopted this exclusion-list policy in the 1996 Streamlining Order, no one has
brought to our attention any public interest reason to prohibit the use of any particular cable systems for
the provision of U.S. international traffic.  Indeed, as the International Bureau stated in its Exclusion List
Order, the Commission adopted the exclusion list as a procedural mechanism to enable carriers with
global authority to use non-U.S.-licensed facilities.  The Bureau encouraged carriers negotiating
agreements to acquire capacity on non-U.S.-licensed facilities that did not appear on the exclusion list to
promptly request that the facility be added, and it anticipated that the procedure would be expeditious. 
Parties supporting our tentative conclusion state that permitting the use of non-U.S. licensed cable systems
as part of a carrier's global facilities-based authorization would increase the number of facilities options
available to carriers.  Tyco states that the current rule is harmful to carriers and cable owners because it
limits choices and discourages undersea cable competition.  Tyco also argues that the current rule is
inconsistent with the current international regulatory environment and commercial reality.  Tyco argues that
the current rule distorts carriers' incentives in obtaining cable capacity and achieves no clear public interest
benefit.  

     60.  For these reasons and those discussed in the Notice, we now amend Sections 63.18(e)(1)
and 63.15(a) of our rules and remove all non-U.S.-licensed undersea cable systems from the exclusion
list.  Any facilities-based carrier will be allowed to use any foreign cable system to provide its authorized
international services.  If it becomes necessary to prohibit the use of any specific cable system (whether
or not it lands on U.S. shores), we may amend the exclusion list.  We will amend the exclusion list only
after providing public notice and an opportunity for affected parties to comment on the amendment.

     61.  The FBI objected to our use of the word "presumption" in describing this proposal and argued
that "no presumption issue should be considered or decided in this docket."  We did not intend to propose
that any new substantive presumption would apply in determining whether the use of any particular cable
system would be prohibited, and we do not adopt any such presumption.

     62.  In the Notice, we tentatively concluded that we should not modify our current practice of
requiring specific Section 214 authority for the use of non-U.S.-licensed satellite systems unless otherwise
indicated on the exclusion list.  We tentatively concluded that a decision whether to permit a particular
facilities-based carrier to use a non-U.S.-licensed satellite system or whether generally to permit use of a
non-U.S.-licensed satellite system by all facilities-based carriers should be made pursuant to the policies
adopted in our DISCO II Order.  PanAmSat agrees that applications to use non-U.S.-licensed satellites
should continue to be evaluated pursuant to the policies adopted in the DISCO II Order.  WorldCom and
MCI disagree.  They suggest that, once the Commission authorizes the use of a particular satellite system
by authorized carriers for service to specified points, the Commission should place that satellite system on
a list and allow any authorized carrier to use that system in providing its authorized services to those same
points without further Section 214 authorization and without amending its Title III licenses, as long as the
satellite system is within the orbital arc and frequency bands of the carrier's authorized earth stations. 
PanAmSat objects to this proposal, arguing that applications to use non-U.S.-licensed satellite systems
raise numerous policy issues that should be evaluated under the procedures adopted in DISCO II.  The
FBI also states that "non-U.S.-licensed satellite systems remain a matter of sensitivity requiring ongoing
Section 214 prior review and authorization."

     63.  We conclude that we should not at this time change our policy regarding the use by authorized
carriers of non-U.S.-licensed satellite systems on this record.  Although, on a more developed record, we
might be able to conclude that the Section 214 inquiry is redundant with the Title III analysis that is applied
to applications to obtain an earth station license to communicate with a non-U.S.-licensed satellite, we
believe it would be inappropriate to draw that conclusion at this time, particularly in light of the possible
national security or law enforcement issues that may be raised by the use of non-U.S.-licensed satellites. 
Therefore, we will continue to require specific Section 214 approval for the use of a non-U.S.-licensed
satellite system.

E.  Procedures for Authorizing Submarine Cable Systems

     64.  Under our current rules, applicants for common carrier cable landing licenses are required to
file two applications:  a cable landing license application under Section 1.767 of the Commission's rules
and a Section 214 application for the construction of new lines under Section 63.18(e)(6) of the
Commission's rules.  The Submarine Cable Landing License Act, which the Commission is charged with
executing, requires that a cable landing license be obtained for any undersea cable directly or indirectly
connecting the United States with any foreign country.  To streamline this process, we proposed to
eliminate the need to apply for separate Section 214 authority to build a new common carrier system by
including the authorization to construct new lines among the rights granted to all authorized facilities-based
carriers.  We noted that this proposal may necessarily be subject to a change in application fees, which
are set by statute and cannot be changed by the Commission.

     65.  This streamlining measure was supported by a number of parties.  MCI and Tyco agree that
a combined authorization process would better serve the public interest.  For instance, MCI argues that the
cable landing license application itself provides all the information needed by the Commission to determine
whether construction and operation of a new submarine cable will be in the public interest.  Likewise, Tyco
finds the current process "onerous and lengthy" and claims that it deters investors in the systems until they
are licensed because carriers must compile extensive information in order to obtain an international
facilities-based authorization and then must regenerate that information to obtain Section 214 authority for
new lines.  WorldCom agrees that there is no reason that the filing requirements should be different for
common carrier applications than for non common carrier applications.  In addition, DoD believes that
the cable landing license application is sufficient for conducting a pre-grant review.

     66.  Currently, the application fee for a non-common carrier cable landing license is $12,975, while
the fee for a common carrier cable landing license is only $1,310.  The application fee for a Section 214
authorization for "overseas cable construction" is $11,665, bringing the total of the application fees for a
common carrier submarine cable to $12,975.  We believe that the fact that the total fees are the same is not
happenstance, but is a good indication of congressional intent that the application fees be the same whether
the applicant intends to construct a common carrier or non common carrier cable system.  There has been
no change in the application fees since we issued the Notice, and no commenter suggested a way to
reconcile the fee disparity with elimination of the Section 214 application.  Therefore, in order to fulfill the
intent of Congress to collect comparable application fees for comparable applications, we do not adopt our
proposal.  We direct our Office of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs to submit a legislative request
to Congress recommending that there be only one application fee for cable landing licenses and that the
separate application fee for "overseas cable construction" be eliminated.  In the meantime, we encourage
applicants for common carrier cable landing licenses to file a single application seeking authority under
both the Cable Landing License Act and Section 214 of the Communications Act.  Information required in
each application need not be repeated.  The applicant should submit both of the applicable fees with its
consolidated application.

     67.  We also sought comment on amending our environmental rules to reflect a new categorical
exclusion for the construction of new submarine cable systems.  As we stated in the Notice, the
Commission concluded in 1974 that any action on an application for a submarine cable landing license
would be categorically excluded from environmental processing.  When we changed the format of our
environmental rules in 1984, we did not include an exemption for submarine cable facilities.  In our 1974
decision, we noted that, "[a]lthough laying transoceanic cable obviously involves considerable activity over
vast distances, the environmental consequences for the ocean, the ocean floor, and the land are negligible." 
We went on to describe how, "[i]n shallow water, the cable is trenched and immediately covered; in deep
water, it is simply laid on the ocean floor"; and "[i]n the landing area, it is trenched for a short distance
between the water's edge and a modest building housing facilities."

     68.  In the Notice, we tentatively concluded that, as we originally decided in 1974, the construction
of new submarine cable systems, individually and cumulatively, will not have a significant effect on the
environment and therefore should be expressly excluded from our environmental processing requirements. 
We also specifically requested comment on the proposed addition to Note 1 of Section 1.1306 to reflect
categorical exclusion of the construction of new submarine cable systems.  We sent a copy of the Notice to
the Council on Environmental Quality.  No party commented on these proposals.

     69.  Seeing no opposition to our proposal, we adopt it as outlined in our Notice.  We will add a
note to Section 1.1306 to reflect a categorical exclusion for the construction of new submarine cable
systems.  An applicant for a cable landing license may cite this note for the proposition that action on its
application is categorically excluded from environmental processing.

     70.  In its comments, DoD identifies another way to expedite the process of granting cable landing
licenses.  DoD states that its review of these applications would be expedited if each applicant were
required to identify the owners of the cable landing station to be utilized and each owner's citizenship. 
We find that, because it would expedite Executive Branch review, it would serve the public interest to
amend our rules to require an applicant for a cable landing license to provide ownership information with
respect to the cable landing station when it provides the specific information about the proposed cable
system's U.S. landing points.  We therefore amend Section 1.767(a)(5) accordingly.

F.  Authorization Procedure for Switched Services over Private Lines

     71.  In the Notice, we proposed to create a new Section 63.16 to contain the Commission's rules on
the provision of switched basic telecommunications services using international private lines interconnected
to the public switched network (sometimes called "international simple resale" or "ISR").  We also
proposed to simplify the procedure for adding to the list of foreign destinations to which any authorized
carrier may carry switched services over its authorized facilities-based or resold private lines.  Currently,
the Commission adds a country to this list only in response to a showing made in a Section 214 application
in which an applicant seeks to provide ISR to a particular foreign country.  We proposed to allow carriers
to request these determinations by petition for declaratory ruling rather than by Section 214 application. 
By allowing applicants to file a petition for declaratory ruling, we would relieve applicants of the burden of
providing the detailed carrier-specific information that is required when a carrier receives authorization to
provide service under Section 63.18.  This would also help to shorten and simplify Section 63.18.

     72.  Commenters expressed support for simplifying the procedure for obtaining Commission
approval of ISR to particular destinations.  A few commenters proposed modifications that they said
would further streamline the procedure.  We disagree with suggestions that we allow carriers to use private
lines to provide switched services to particular destinations without a specific, explicit Commission finding
that the criteria for authorizing ISR to that destination have been met.  It is important for all carriers to
be on notice that private lines may be used to provide switched services on a given route before any carrier
is allowed to do so.  Without a public Commission ruling, different carriers could have different
information or reach different good-faith conclusions about the permissibility of ISR.  We recognize the
value to carriers and consumers of authorizing ISR as quickly as possible, and we intend to act
expeditiously in response to any request to authorize ISR to a particular destination.

     73.  Our analysis of the record leads us to decide that we will accept petitions filed pursuant to
Section 63.16 asking us to authorize the use of private lines for switched services to particular destinations. 
We will place each petition on public notice and seek comment, but we may specify a shorter notice period
or issue very brief orders depending on the complexity of the showing required.  For example, if a petition
demonstrates clearly that the destination is a WTO member country and that settlement rates for more than
50 percent of the settled U.S.-billed traffic on that route are at or below the Commission's benchmark
settlement rates, then we may specify a short comment period and/or use a procedure similar to the
streamlined Section 214 authorization procedure because there are few if any issues in dispute.  If, on the
other hand, a petition seeks to make a showing that the foreign destination country offers equivalent resale
opportunities, we are more likely to specify a 28-day comment period with an opportunity for replies and
issue a formal written order.

     74.  Therefore, we will modify our proposed rule to make clear that Commission staff will have the
discretion to set an appropriate period for public comment and to issue a ruling by public notice on any
petition for a declaratory ruling to allow ISR to a particular destination.  In any event, we will act on these
applications as quickly as possible.

G.  Applicants' Ownership Information

     75.  In the Notice, we proposed no longer to require applicants to list every entity that directly or
indirectly owns at least 10 percent of the applicant.  Instead, we proposed to require a listing only of
entities that own more than 25 percent of the applicant.  We noted that we recently raised the level of
investment by foreign carriers that must be reported to the Commission after the carrier is authorized, and
we sought comment on whether we should continue to scrutinize investments in applicants at a greater level
of detail than we require after the carrier is authorized.

     76.  We conclude that we should continue to require applicants for Section 214 authorizations to
list every 10-percent-or-greater direct and indirect equity owner.  We are persuaded by the comments of
MCI and WorldCom, who oppose this proposal, that this requirement has not become unnecessary in the
public interest as a result of meaningful economic competition.  Whether the threshold is 10 percent or
25 percent, applicants will be required to provide a list of owners; although a 10-percent threshold is
somewhat more burdensome, that increased burden does not outweigh the potential value to the
Commission of being able to review the additional information about the applicant's ownership.  Leaving
the threshold at 10 percent or greater will help us determine whether a particular application raises issues
of national security, foreign policy, or law enforcement risks.  The additional information will also help the
Commission determine when an investment below the 25 percent level could have a significant impact on
competition.  Retaining the requirement that applicants list all 10-percent-or-greater equity holders is not
inconsistent with our recent action raising the level of ownership by a foreign carrier that must be reported
after a carrier is authorized; there, we significantly reduced a burden imposed on carriers by eliminating the
requirement that carriers file any notification at all in a significant number of situations   where the
carrier acquires a new equity relationship of between 10 and 25 percent.  Lifting that substantial burden
justified our earlier action, but we would not have the same justification here.

     77.  Qwest asserts that no shareholder should have to be identified in a Section 214 application
unless it is a foreign carrier or is affiliated with a foreign carrier.  Although Qwest is correct that, under
the Commission's current policies, investments by foreign carriers or their affiliates are most relevant to our
competitiveness analysis in the international context, initial ownership information is useful for an initial
determination of issues related to national security, law enforcement, foreign policy, and trade policy.  We
therefore will continue to require applicants to list every owner of 10 percent or more of the applicant.

H.  Reorganization of Part 63 Rules

     78.  Commenters support our approach to reorganizing the rules in Part 63 that are applicable to
international telecommunications authorization and service.  Our proposals included creation of a
separate section for definitions and two new sections to list the obligations of facilities-based and resale
carriers.  This reorganization would make the section on contents of applications, Section 63.18, easier to
follow.  It would also reduce the amount of boilerplate information to be contained in applications, allowing
applicants merely to certify that they will comply with the requirements of the new sections rather than
repeating the text of those requirements.  In proposing these changes to our rules, we endeavored to keep
rule numbers consistent to the extent that doing so did not limit our ability to simplify the rules and reduce
the burdens they impose.  We sought comment on whether any inadvertent substantive changes would
result from our proposed rules, and no commenter noted any.  We therefore adopt the changes proposed in
the Notice except as noted below.  We reiterate that no substantive changes are intended other than those
discussed in the text of this Report and Order or the Notice.

     79.  We proposed to codify the already-existing obligation that an authorized facilities-based
carrier may provide service to a market served by an affiliate that terminates U.S. international traffic only
if that affiliate has in effect a settlement rate with U.S. international carriers that is at or below the
Commission's relevant benchmark for that market.  We adopted this condition in our 1997 Benchmarks
Order, and it now applies to all facilities-based international carriers.  Although we believe that the
benchmarks condition for facilities-based carriers should be codified, we intend to act in the very near
future on the petitions for reconsideration that have been filed in the Benchmarks proceeding, and it would
be more appropriate to address this issue in that reconsideration order.  We therefore transfer the record
on this issue to the Benchmarks reconsideration proceeding.

     80.  We also clarify the definition of affiliation that we now codify in Section 63.09(e), and we
eliminate the reference to that definition in Section 63.18.  In the Foreign Carrier Entry Order, we
created two affiliation standards   one for application of our entry standard and one for application of
dominant carrier regulation.  Those two standards are currently codified in paragraphs (B) and (A),
respectively, of Section 63.18(h)(1)(i).  Although the two standards have been applied consistently, the
common use of the term affiliation and the placement of that term's definition have been a source of
confusion about the applicability of the "effective competitive opportunities" entry test and dominant carrier
regulation.  Under the rules that we now adopt, the term affiliation will be used only in its broader sense,
that is, when there is an interest greater than 25 percent, or a controlling interest at any level, by the U.S.
carrier in a foreign carrier or by a foreign carrier in the U.S. carrier.  This is the standard used to
determine whether there exists an affiliation for purposes of classifying a carrier as dominant under Section
63.10.  Our entry standard will no longer be tied to a definition of affiliation.  Instead, the new rule is
clearer that our entry standard applies only when the applicant controls a foreign carrier or when more than
25 percent of the applicant (or a controlling interest) is owned by an entity that controls a foreign carrier.  

     81.  By no longer tying our entry standard to one portion of our definition of affiliation, we are
able to greatly simplify the definition of affiliation in our new definitional section, Section 63.09.  This
definition is also consistent with our intent in adopting our affiliation standard in the Foreign Carrier Entry
Order.  We hope that the revised provisions contained in Sections 63.09 and 63.18 serve to clarify our
definition of affiliation and the applicability of our entry standard, and we invite members of the public to
bring informal questions and comments to the attention of International Bureau staff.

     82.  In drafting our proposed rules and attempting to eliminate unnecessary certifications from
Section 63.18, we removed the requirement of Section 63.18(h)(3) that an applicant certify whether it is
affiliated with a U.S. carrier whose facilities-based services it plans to resell.  This certification, together
with the obligation of carriers to update the certifications in their applications, ensured that a carrier
planning to resell an affiliated facilities-based carrier's services on an affiliated route would not escape
Commission scrutiny.  Our proposed rules neglected to consider this situation.  Rather than continue to
impose the burden of the certification that is currently required, we now add a provision to Section
63.10(a)(4) to require a carrier that is regulated as non-dominant on an affiliated route under this provision
to notify the Commission if at any time it begins to provide service by reselling an affiliated facilities-based
carrier's services on the affiliated route.  The carrier will be deemed a dominant carrier on the route unless
and until the Commission finds that the carrier qualifies for non-dominant regulation under Section 63.10.

     83.  We also adopt our proposals to codify a requirement that carriers notify the Commission by
letter within 30 days of a name change, an assignment, or a decision not to consummate an authorized
assignment.  As stated in the Notice, we continue to believe that it is necessary for the Commission's
records to reflect the identities of all authorized international carriers.  We modify our proposed
codification to require that carriers also notify the Commission within 30 days of the date of consummation
of a transfer of control or a decision not to consummate an authorized transfer.  Notification is necessary to
ensure that Commission records accurately reflect the party or parties that control the carrier's operations,
particularly for purposes of enforcing Commission rules and policies.

     84.  Cable & Wireless requests that the Commission consider releasing an updated compilation of
these rules.  In view of the numerous recent deregulatory and other rulemaking proceedings that have
affected these rules, we believe that it would be helpful to applicants, carriers, and practitioners to release
an updated compilation.  We accordingly direct the International Bureau to release the updated text of
Sections 63.09 through 63.24 by June 1, 1999, and to make that document available from the Bureau's
Web site at http://www.fcc.gov/ib.

I.  Miscellaneous Issues

     85.  WorldCom proposes that we apply our new rules with respect to pro forma assignments and
transfers of control and service by wholly-owned subsidiaries to Title III earth station licenses and cable
landing licenses.  WorldCom argues that the same public interest benefits would apply to providing this
additional flexibility with respect to Title III licenses and cable landing licenses as to Section 214
authorizations.  WorldCom believes that its proposal would reduce the administrative burden on carriers
seeking several authorizations for the same service and reduce the processing burden on the Commission.

     86.  We agree with WorldCom's concerns, but we conclude that we cannot adopt its proposal here. 
As we stated in the Notice, the Submarine Cable Landing License Act requires that a cable landing
license be obtained for any undersea cable directly or indirectly connecting the United States with any
foreign country, and Executive Order No. 10,530 requires the Commission to obtain the approval of the
State Department and advice from other Executive Branch agencies before granting any cable landing
license.  Although Section 10 of the Communications Act gives us authority to forbear from
requirements of the Communications Act, no party in this proceeding has argued that Section 10 gives the
Commission the authority to forbear from the requirements of the Submarine Cable Landing License Act. 
We also would not make any changes in the authority granted in submarine cable landing licenses without
the consent of the State Department.

     87.  Because most earth station licenses are not common carrier radio licenses, we might not be
able to use our Section 10 forbearance authority to avoid the requirements of Section 310(d) with regard to
assignments and transfers of control of earth station authorizations.  Section 10 applies only to regulations
or provisions of the Communications Act that apply to telecommunications carriers or
telecommunications services, which we have held to refer only to common carrier licensees.  Indeed, we
recently forbore from requiring prior review of pro forma assignments and transfers of control of common
carrier radio licenses licensed by the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau.  In that order, we
specifically found that our forbearance could not apply to non common carrier licenses because of the
language of Section 10.  Because the same issues would arise here, we find that we cannot adopt
WorldCom's proposals in this proceeding.

     88.  Tyco states that the Commission should soon examine its practice of "imposing separate
regulatory requirements on common carrier and non common carrier submarine cable systems."  We
agree that this and other policies related to cable landing licenses should be reviewed and will consider
initiating a proceeding to address those issues in the near future.

     89.  SBC argues that the Commission should stop requiring tariffs for international services. 
The issue of detariffing raises many complex policy and legal issues that are not appropriately addressed in
this proceeding.  We do intend to consider forbearing from requiring tariffs or prohibiting tariffs altogether
in a future proceeding.

     90.  SBC and AT&T argue that we should revise our procedures for requiring advance notification
of affiliations with foreign carriers.  SBC argues that those prior-review requirements, contained in Section
63.11 of our rules, should be eliminated entirely.  AT&T, on the other hand, argues that we should
require advance notification of acquisitions of dominant foreign carrier equity interests of 10 percent or
greater in, or by, authorized U.S. carriers.  These proposals are outside the scope of this proceeding. 
SBC's request is pending on reconsideration of the Foreign Participation Order and will be considered
there.

     91.  Cable & Wireless proposes that we change our policies permitting the provision of switched
services over private lines (ISR) to recognize when foreign markets offer equivalent resale opportunities in
subsets of services.  Cable & Wireless's request is beyond the scope of this proceeding.

     92.  Cable & Wireless also suggests that the Commission include in its rules applicable to
international Section 214 authorizations a provision specifically addressing frivolous filings.  It states that
petitions to deny applications for international Section 214 authorizations are often filed based on
arguments that have been specifically rejected by the Commission with the apparent intent of removing the
application from streamlined review.  Cable & Wireless recognizes that Section 1.52 of the Commission's
rules addresses frivolous pleadings filed in Commission proceedings and provides that the Commission can
strike such pleadings, issue forfeitures, or seek disciplinary action against the attorneys involved.  The
Commission issued a public notice in February 1996 reminding parties of Section 1.52 and stating that the
Commission intends to fully utilize its authority to discourage and deter frivolous filings and impose
appropriate sanctions where such pleadings are filed.

     93.  Our decision in this order no longer to seek public comment on the great majority of
international Section 214 applications reduces the ability of parties to file frivolous petitions to deny.  For
any situations that remain, we believe that our existing rules, in particular Section 1.52, are sufficient to
address Cable & Wireless's concerns.

     94.  Deutsche Telekom argues that the Commission should not impose dominant carrier safeguards
on any carrier whose affiliated foreign carrier's settlement rates are at or below the Commission's
benchmark settlement rates.  This issue is beyond the scope of this proceeding.  In addition, as AT&T
states, Deutsche Telekom's argument ignores the fact that, among other things, our dominant-carrier
regulations address non-price discrimination as well as price discrimination.

     95.  Cable & Wireless asks that we address our affiliation standard as it applies to our benchmark
settlement rate rules.  Cable & Wireless argues that our 25-percent affiliation standard should not apply to
the benchmark settlement rate condition.  This, too, would be a substantive change to our rules that is not
within the scope of this proceeding.

                     III.  Procedural Matters

A.  Final Regulatory Flexibility Certification

     96.  The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) requires that an agency prepare a regulatory
flexibility analysis for notice-and-comment rulemaking proceedings, unless the agency certifies that "the
rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small
entities."  In the Notice, we certified that the proposed rules would not have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small entities because they would not impose any additional compliance
burden on small entities dealing with the Commission.  No comments were received concerning this
certification.  We now reaffirm this certification with respect to the rules adopted in this order.  We
anticipate that the rule changes we adopt here will reduce regulatory and procedural burdens on small
entities.  The purposes of this proceeding are to eliminate some regulatory requirements and to simplify and
clarify other existing rules.  The modifications do not impose any additional compliance burden on persons
dealing with the Commission, including small entities.  Any prospective carrier will continue to submit an
application for Section 214 authorization.  In most cases, the authorization will be granted expeditiously. 
We anticipate that the revisions we adopt here will make it easier for small entities as well as others to
provide international telecommunications service without unnecessary delay.  Accordingly, we certify,
pursuant to Section 605(b) of the RFA, that the rules adopted herein will not have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small business entities, as defined by the RFA.  The Office of Public
Affairs, Reference Operations Division, shall send a copy of this Report and Order, including this
certification, to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration.  A copy of this
certification will also be published in the Federal Register.

B.  Final Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 Analysis

     97.  This Report and Order contains a modified information collection, which has been submitted
to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval.  As part of our continuing effort to reduce
paperwork burdens, we invite the public and other government agencies to take this opportunity to
comment on the information collection contained in this Report and Order, as required by the Paperwork
Reduction Act of 1995, Pub. L. No. 104-13.  Public and agency comments are due 30 days from
publication of this Report and Order in the Federal Register.  Comments should address the following:  (a)
whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of
the Commission, including whether the information shall have practical utility; (b) the accuracy of the
Commission's burden estimates; (c) ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information
collected; and (d) ways to minimize the burden of the collection of information on the respondents,
including the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology.  A copy of
any comments on the information collections contained herein should be submitted to Judy Boley, Federal
Communications Commission, room 1-C804, 445 12th Street S.W., Washington, D.C. 20554, or via the
Internet to jboley@fcc.gov.

                      IV.  Ordering Clauses

     98.  Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that, pursuant to Sections 1, 4(i), 4(k), 10, 11, 201(b), 214,
303(r), 307, 309(a), and 310 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C.  151, 154(i),
154(k), 160, 161, 201(b), 214, 303(r), 307, 309(a), 310, and the Submarine Cable Landing License Act,
47 U.S.C.  34 39, this REPORT AND ORDER is hereby ADOPTED and Parts 1, 43, 63, and 64 of the
Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R. pts. 1, 43, 63, 64, ARE AMENDED as set forth in Appendix B.

     99.  IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the rule changes and information collections contained
herein WILL BECOME EFFECTIVE 30 days after publication in the Federal Register, following OMB
approval, unless a notice is published in the Federal Register stating otherwise.

     100.  IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the record on codification of the benchmarks condition for
facilities-based carriers developed in this proceeding be transferred to IB Docket 96-261 for future
consideration.

     101.  IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that authority is delegated to the Chief, International Bureau,
and the Chief, Common Carrier Bureau, as specified herein, to effect the decisions as set forth above.

     102.  IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Commission's Office of Legislative and
Intergovernmental Affairs is directed to submit a legislative request to Congress as described in paragraph
66 of this order.

     103.  IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Commission's Office of Public Affairs, Reference
Operations Division, shall send a copy of this Report and Order, including the Regulatory Flexibility
Certification, to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration, in accordance with
paragraph 603(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C.  601 et seq.

     104.  IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Commission's Office of Public Affairs, Reference
Operations Division, shall send a copy of this Report and Order to the Council on Environmental Quality.

                         FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION


                         Magalie Roman Salas
                         Secretary                            APPENDIX A

            Parties Filing Comments or Reply Comments
                       and Short-Form Names


Ameritech
AT&T Corp. (AT&T)
Bell Atlantic Communications, Inc. and NYNEX Long Distance Company (Bell Atlantic)
BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth)
Cable & Wireless plc and Cable & Wireless, Inc. (Cable & Wireless)
Competitive Telecommunications Association (CompTel)
COMSAT Corporation (COMSAT)
Deutsche Telekom AG (DT)
Excel Telecommunications, Inc. (Excel)
FaciliCom International, L.L.C. (FaciliCom)
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
GTE Service Corporation (GTE)
Iridium U.S., L.P. (Iridium)
MCI Telecommunications Corp. (MCI)
PanAmSat Corporation (PanAmSat)
Personal Communications Industry Association (PCIA)
Primus Telecommunications, Inc. (Primus)
Qwest Communications Corporation (Qwest)
Secretary of Defense (DoD)
Sprint Communications Company L.P. (Sprint)
SBC Communications Inc. (SBC)
Tyco Submarine Systems Ltd. (Tyco)
WorldCom, Inc. (WorldCom)

                            APPENDIX B

                           Final Rules

Parts 1, 43, 63, and 64 of the Commission's Rules and Regulations (Chapter I of Title 47 of the Code of
Federal Regulations) are amended as follows:

PART 1   PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

1.  The authority citation for part 1 continues to read as follows:

          Authority:  15 U.S.C. 79 et seq.; 47 U.S.C. 151, 154(i), 154(j), 155, 225, and 303(r).


2.  Section 1.767 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(5), (a)(6), and (a)(7), adding new paragraphs
(a)(8) and (a)(9), and revising paragraph (e) to read as follows:

 1.767 Cable landing licenses.

     (a) ***

*****

     (5) A specific description of the cable landing stations on the shore of the United States and in
foreign countries where the cable will land.  The description shall include a map showing specific
coordinates or street addresses of each landing station as well as the identity, citizenship, and specific
ownership share of each owner of each U.S. landing station.  The applicant initially may file a general
geographic description of the landing points; however, grant of the application will be conditioned on the
Commission's final approval of a more specific description of the landing points, including all information
required by this paragraph, to be filed by the applicant no later than 90 days prior to construction.  The
Commission will give public notice of the filing of this description, and grant of the license will be
considered final if the Commission does not notify the applicant otherwise in writing no later than 60 days
after receipt of the specific description of the landing points, unless the Commission designates a different
time period;

     (6) A statement as to whether the cable will be operated on a common carrier or non-common
carrier basis;

     (7) A list of the proposed owners of the cable system, their voting interests, and their ownership
interests by segment in the cable;

     (8) For each proposed owner of the cable system, a certification as to whether the proposed owner
is, or is affiliated with, a foreign carrier (as defined in  63.09 of this chapter).  Include the information and
certifications required in  63.18(h) through (k) of this chapter; and

     (9) Any other information that may be necessary to enable the Commission to act on the
application.

*****

     (e) *** The application fee for a non-common carrier cable landing license is payment type code
BJT.  Applicants for common carrier cable landing licenses shall pay the fees for both a common carrier
cable landing license (payment type code CXT) and overseas cable construction (payment type code BIT). 
There is no application fee for modification of a cable landing license, except that the fee for assignment or
transfer of control of a cable landing license is payment type code CUT.  See  1.1107(2) of this chapter.

3.  Section 1.1306 is amended by adding the following sentence to the end of Note 1:

 1.1306 Actions which are categorically excluded from environmental processing.

*****

Note 1:  *** The provisions of  1.1307(a) and (b) of this part do not encompass the construction of new
submarine cable systems.


PART 43   REPORTS OF COMMUNICATION COMMON CARRIERS AND CERTAIN
AFFILIATES

4.  The authority citation for part 43 continues to read as follows:

     Authority:  47 U.S.C. 154; Telecommunications Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-104, secs. 402
(b)(2)(B), (c), 110 Stat. 56 (1996) as amended unless otherwise noted.  47 U.S.C. 211, 219, 220 as
amended.


5.  Section 43.61 is amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows:

 43.61 Reports of international telecommunications traffic.

*****

     (c) Each common carrier engaged in the resale of international switched services that is affiliated
with a foreign carrier that has sufficient market power on the foreign end of an international route to affect
competition adversely in the U.S. market and that collects settlement payments from U.S. carriers shall file
a quarterly version of the report required in paragraph (a) of this section for its switched resale services on
the dominant route within 90 days from the end of each calendar quarter.  For purposes of this paragraph,
affiliated and foreign carrier are defined in  63.09 of this chapter.


PART 63   EXTENSION OF LINES AND DISCONTINUANCE, REDUCTION, OUTAGE AND
IMPAIRMENT OF SERVICE BY COMMON CARRIERS; AND GRANTS OF RECOGNIZED
PRIVATE OPERATING AGENCY STATUS

6.  The authority citation for Part 63 is revised to read as follows:

     Authority:  47 U.S.C. 151, 154(i), 154(j), 160, 161, 201 205, 218, 403, 533 unless otherwise
noted.


7.  Section 63.09 is added to read as follows:

 63.09 Definitions applicable to international Section 214 authorizations.

     The following definitions shall apply to  63.09 63.24 of this part, unless the context indicates
otherwise:

     (a) Facilities-based carrier means a carrier that holds an ownership, indefeasible-right-of-user, or
leasehold interest in bare capacity in the U.S. end of an international facility, regardless of whether the
underlying facility is a common carrier or non-common carrier submarine cable or a satellite system.

     (b) Control includes actual working control in whatever manner exercised and is not limited to
majority stock ownership.  Control also includes direct or indirect control, such as through intervening
subsidiaries.

     (c) Special concession is defined as in  63.14(b).

     (d) Foreign carrier is defined as any entity that is authorized within a foreign country to engage in
the provision of international telecommunications services offered to the public in that country within the
meaning of the International Telecommunication Regulations, see Final Acts of the World Administrative
Telegraph and Telephone Conference, Melbourne, 1988 (WATTC-88), Art. 1, which includes entities
authorized to engage in the provision of domestic telecommunications services if such carriers have the
ability to originate or terminate telecommunications services to or from points outside their country.

     (e) Two entities are affiliated with each other if one of them, or an entity that controls one of them,
directly or indirectly owns more than 25 percent of the capital stock of, or controls, the other one.
     Also, a U.S. carrier is affiliated with two or more foreign carriers if the foreign carriers, or entities
that control them, together directly or indirectly own more than 25 percent of the capital stock of, or
control, the U.S. carrier and those foreign carriers are parties to, or the beneficiaries of, a contractual
relation (e.g., a joint venture or market alliance) affecting the provision or marketing of international basic
telecommunications services in the United States.

     (f) Market power means sufficient market power to affect competition adversely in the U.S.
market.

Note 1:  The assessment of "capital stock" ownership will be made under the standards developed in
Commission case law for determining such ownership. See, e.g., Fox Television Stations, Inc., 10 FCC
Rcd 8452 (1995). "Capital stock" includes all forms of equity ownership, including partnership interests.

Note 2:  Ownership and other interests in U.S. and foreign carriers will be attributed to their holders and
deemed cognizable pursuant to the following criteria:  Attribution of ownership interests in a carrier that
are held indirectly by any party through one or more intervening corporations will be determined by
successive multiplication of the ownership percentages for each link in the vertical ownership chain and
application of the relevant attribution benchmark to the resulting product, except that wherever the
ownership percentage for any link in the chain exceeds 50 percent, it shall not be included for purposes of
this multiplication.  For example, if A owns 30 percent of company X, which owns 60 percent of company
Y, which owns 26 percent of "carrier," then X's interest in "carrier" would be 26 percent (the same as Y's
interest because X's interest in Y exceeds 50 percent), and A's interest in "carrier" would be 7.8 percent
(0.30 x 0.26).  Under the 25 percent attribution benchmark, X's interest in "carrier" would be cognizable,
while A's interest would not be cognizable.


8.  Section 63.10 is amended by removing the third sentence of paragraph (a) introductory text, revising
paragraph (a)(4), and removing the last sentence of paragraph (c)(5) to read as follows:

 63.10 Regulatory classification of U.S. international carriers

     (a) ***

*****

     (4) A carrier that is authorized under this part to provide to a particular destination an international
switched service, and that provides such service solely through the resale of an unaffiliated U.S. facilities-
based carrier's international switched services (either directly or indirectly through the resale of another
U.S. resale carrier's international switched services), shall presumptively be classified as non-dominant for
the provision of the authorized service.  A carrier regulated as non-dominant pursuant to this subparagraph
shall notify the Commission at any time that it begins to provide such service through the resale of an
affiliated U.S. facilities-based carrier's international switched services.  The carrier will be deemed a
dominant carrier on the route absent a Commission finding that the carrier otherwise qualifies for
non-dominant regulation pursuant to this Section.

*****


9.  Section 63.11 is amended by revising the section heading, by revising paragraph (a), by deleting "within
the meaning of  63.18(h)(1)" in paragraph (b), by revising paragraph (c)(1), by revising paragraphs (e)(1)
and (e)(2), by replacing " 63.18(i)" with " 63.18(n)" in paragraph (f), and by deleting the Note to  63.11
to read as follows:

 63.11 Notification by and prior approval for U.S. international carriers that are or propose to
become affiliated with a foreign carrier.

     (a) Any carrier authorized to provide international communications service under this part shall
notify the Commission sixty days prior to the consummation of either of the following acquisitions of direct
or indirect interests in or by foreign carriers:

     (1) acquisition of a controlling interest in a foreign carrier by the authorized carrier, or by any
entity that controls the authorized carrier, or that directly or indirectly owns more than 25 percent of the
capital stock of the authorized carrier; or

     (2) acquisition of a direct or indirect interest greater than 25 percent, or a controlling interest, in the
capital stock of the authorized carrier by a foreign carrier or by an entity that controls a foreign carrier.

     (b) ***

     (c) ***

     (1) The carrier also should specify, where applicable, those countries named in response to
paragraph (c) of this section for which it provides international switched services solely through the resale
of the international switched services of unaffiliated U.S. facilities-based carriers.

     (2) The carrier shall also submit with its notification:

     (i) The name, address, citizenship and principal businesses of any person or entity that directly or
indirectly owns at least ten percent of the equity of the applicant, and the percentage of equity owned by
each of those entities (to the nearest one percent).  The applicant shall also identify any interlocking
directorates with a foreign carrier.

     (ii) A certification that the applicant has not agreed to accept special concessions directly or
indirectly from any foreign carrier with respect to any U.S. international route where the foreign carrier
possesses market power on the foreign end of the route and will not enter into such agreements in the
future.

*****

     (e) ***

     (1) In the case of a notification filed under this section, the Commission, if it deems it necessary,
will by written order at any time before or after the deadline for submission of public comments impose
dominant carrier regulation on the carrier for the affiliated routes based on the provisions of  63.10.

     (2) The Commission will presume the investment to be in the public interest unless the Commission
notifies the carrier that the investment raises a substantial and material question of fact as to whether the
investment serves the public interest, convenience and necessity.  Such notification shall be in writing
within 30 days of the issuance of the public notice.  If notified that the investment raises a substantial and
material question, then the carrier shall not consummate the planned investment until it has filed a complete
application under  63.18, including  63.18(k), and the Commission has approved the application by
formal written order.

     (f) ***


10.  Section 63.12 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b), and (c)(1), by deleting "within the meaning
of  63.18(h)(1)" in paragraph (c)(2), by deleting paragraph (c)(4), by redesignating paragraph (c)(5) as
paragraph (c)(4), and by amending paragraph (c)(4) to read as follows:

 63.12 Processing of international Section 214 applications.

     (a) Except as provided by paragraph (c) of this section, a complete application seeking
authorization under  63.18 shall be granted by the Commission 14 days after the date of public notice
listing the application as accepted for filing.

     (b) The applicant may commence operation on the 15th day after the date of public notice listing
the application as accepted for filing, but only in accordance with the operations proposed in its application
and the rules, regulations, and policies of the Commission.  The Public Notice of the grant of the
authorization shall represent the applicant's Section 214 certificate.

     (c) ***

     (1) The applicant is affiliated with a foreign carrier in a destination market, unless the applicant
clearly demonstrates in its application at least one of the following:

     (i) The Commission has previously determined that the affiliated foreign carrier lacks market
power in that destination market;

     (ii) The applicant qualifies for a presumption of non-dominance under  63.10(a)(3);

     (iii) The affiliated foreign carrier owns no facilities, or only mobile wireless facilities, in that
destination market.  For this purpose, a carrier is said to own facilities if it holds an ownership,
indefeasible-right-of-user, or leasehold interest in bare capacity in international or domestic
telecommunications facilities (excluding switches);

     (iv) The affiliated destination market is a WTO Member country and the applicant qualifies for a
presumption of non-dominance under  63.10(a)(4);

     (v) The affiliated destination market is a WTO Member country and the applicant agrees to be
classified as a dominant carrier to the affiliated destination country under  63.10, without prejudice to its
right to petition for reclassification at a later date; or

     (vi) An entity with exactly the same ultimate ownership as the applicant has been authorized to
provide the applied-for services on the affiliated destination route, and the applicant agrees to be subject to
all of the conditions to which the authorized carrier is subject for its provision of service on that route; or

     (2) ***

     (3) ***

     (4) The Commission has informed the applicant in writing, within 14 days after the date of public
notice listing the application as accepted for filing, that the application is not eligible for streamlined
processing.

     (d) If an application is deemed complete but, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, is deemed
ineligible for the streamlined processing procedures provided by paragraphs (a) and (b), the Commission
will issue public notice indicating that the application is ineligible for streamlined processing.  Within 90
days of the public notice, the Commission will take action upon the application or provide public notice
that, because the application raises questions of extraordinary complexity, an additional 90-day period for
review is needed.  Each successive 90-day period may be so extended.  The application shall not be deemed
granted until the Commission affirmatively acts upon the application.  Operation for which such
authorization is sought may not commence except in accordance with any terms or conditions imposed by
the Commission.


11.  Section 63.14 is amended by removing the last sentence of paragraph (a) and revising paragraph (b)
introductory text to read as follows:

 63.14 Prohibition on agreeing to accept special concessions.

     (a) ***

     (b) A special concession is defined as an exclusive arrangement involving services, facilities, or
functions on the foreign end of a U.S. international route that are necessary for the provision of basic
telecommunications services where the arrangement is not offered to similarly situated U.S.-licensed
carriers and involves:

     (1) ***

     (2) ***

     (3) ***

*****


12.  Section 63.15 is removed.

 63.15 [removed]


13.  Section 63.16 is added to read as follows:

 63.16 Switched services over private lines.

     (a) Except as provided in  63.22(f)(2), a carrier may provide switched basic services over its
authorized private lines if and only if the country at the foreign end of the private line appears on a
Commission list of destinations to which the Commission has authorized the provision of switched services
over private lines.  The list of authorized destinations is available from the International Bureau's World
Wide Web site at http://www.fcc.gov/ib.

     (b) An authorized carrier seeking to add a foreign market to the list of markets for which carriers
may provide switched services over private lines must make the following showing:

             (i) If seeking a Commission ruling to permit the provision of international switched basic
     services over private lines between the United States and a WTO Member country, the applicant
     shall demonstrate either that settlement rates for at least 50 percent of the settled U.S.-billed traffic
     between the United States and the country at the foreign end of the private line are at or below the
     benchmark settlement rate adopted for that country in IB Docket No. 96-261 or that the country
     affords resale opportunities equivalent to those available under U.S. law (see paragraph (c) of this
     section).
             (ii) If seeking a Commission ruling to permit the provision of international switched basic
     services over private lines between the United States and a non-WTO Member country, the
     applicant shall demonstrate that settlement rates for at least 50 percent of the settled U.S.-billed
     traffic between the United States and the country at the foreign end of the private line are at or
     below the benchmark settlement rate adopted for that country in IB Docket No. 96-261 and that
     the country affords resale opportunities equivalent to those available under U.S. law (see
     paragraph (c) of this section).

     (c) With regard to showing under paragraph (b) of this section that a destination country affords
resale opportunities equivalent to those available under U.S. law, an applicant shall include evidence
demonstrating that equivalent resale opportunities exist between the United States and the subject country,
including any relevant bilateral or multilateral agreements between the administrations involved. The
applicant must demonstrate that the foreign country at the other end of the private line provides U.S.-based
carriers with:

             (i) The legal right to resell international private lines, interconnected at both ends, for the
     provision of switched services;
             (ii) Reasonable and nondiscriminatory charges, terms and conditions for interconnection to
     foreign domestic carrier facilities for termination and origination of international services, with
     adequate means of enforcement;
             (iii) Competitive safeguards to protect against anticompetitive and discriminatory practices
     affecting private line resale; and
             (iv) Fair and transparent regulatory procedures, including separation between the regulator
     and operator of international facilities-based services.

     (d) The showing required by paragraph (b) of this section may be made in a Section 214
application filed pursuant to  63.18 or in a petition for declaratory ruling addressed to the attention of the
International Bureau and indicating clearly the name of the party seeking the declaration and the destination
points for which the declaration is sought.  The Commission will issue public notice of the filing of the
request and may, in each case, determine an appropriate deadline for filing comments.  Unopposed requests
may be granted by public notice.

Note 1 to  63.16:  The Commission's benchmark settlement rates are available in International Settlement
Rates, IB Docket No. 96-261, Report and Order, FCC 97-280, 12 FCC Rcd 19,806, 62 FR 45758
(August 29, 1997).


14.  Section 63.17 is amended by changing "(e)(6)" to "(e)(4)" at the end of paragraph (b)(4).


15.  Section 63.18 is amended by redesignating paragraphs (j) and (k) as paragraphs (o) and (p), by
revising paragraphs (e) through (i), and adding new paragraphs (j) through (n) to read as follows:

 63.18 Contents of applications for international common carriers.

*****

     (e) One or more of the following statements, as pertinent:

     (1) Global Facilities-Based Authority.  If applying for authority to become a facilities-based
international common carrier subject to  63.22, the applicant shall:

                (i) State that it is requesting Section 214 authority to operate as a facilities-based carrier
        pursuant to  63.18(e)(1) of the Commission's rules;

                (ii) List any countries for which the applicant does not request authorization under this
        paragraph (see  63.22(a)); and

                (iii) Certify that it will comply with the terms and conditions contained in  63.21 and
        63.22.

     (2) Global Resale Authority.  If applying for authority to resell the international services of
authorized U.S. common carriers subject to  63.23, the applicant shall:

                (i) State that it is requesting Section 214 authority to operate as a resale carrier pursuant to
         63.18(e)(2) of the Commission's rules;

                (ii) List any countries for which the applicant does not request authorization under this
        paragraph (see  63.23(a)); and

                (iii) Certify that it will comply with the terms and conditions contained in  63.21 and
        63.23.

     (3) Transfer of Control or Assignment.  If applying for authority to transfer control of a common
carrier holding international Section 214 authorization or to acquire, by assignment, another carrier's
existing international Section 214 authorization, the applicant shall complete paragraphs (a) through (d) of
this section for both the transferor/assignor and the transferee/assignee.  Only the transferee/assignee needs
to complete paragraphs (h) through (p) of this section.  At the beginning of the application, the applicant
should also include a narrative of the means by which the transfer or assignment will take place.  The
Commission reserves the right to request additional information as to the particulars of the transaction to
aid it in making its public interest determination.  An assignee or transferee shall notify the Commission no
later than 30 days after either consummation of the assignment or transfer or a decision not to consummate
the assignment or transfer.  The notification may be by letter and shall identify the file numbers under
which the initial authorization and the authorization of the assignment or transfer were granted.  See also 
63.24 (pro forma assignments and transfers of control).

     (4) Other Authorizations.  If applying for authority to acquire facilities or to provide services not
covered by paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3), the applicant shall provide a description of the facilities and
services for which it seeks authorization.  The applicant shall certify that it will comply with the terms and
conditions contained in  63.21 and  63.22 and/or  63.23, as appropriate.  Such description also shall
include any additional information the Commission shall have specified previously in an order, public
notice or other official action as necessary for authorization.

     (f) ***

     (g) Where the applicant is seeking facilities-based authority under paragraph (e)(4) of this section,
a statement whether an authorization of the facilities is categorically excluded as defined by  1.1306 of
this chapter.  If answered affirmatively, an environmental assessment as described in  1.1311 of this
chapter need not be filed with the application.

     (h) The name, address, citizenship and principal businesses of any person or entity that directly or
indirectly owns at least ten percent of the equity of the applicant, and the percentage of equity owned by
each of those entities (to the nearest one percent).  The applicant shall also identify any interlocking
directorates with a foreign carrier.

     (i) A certification as to whether or not the applicant is, or is affiliated with, a foreign carrier.  The
certification shall state with specificity each foreign country in which the applicant is, or is affiliated with, a
foreign carrier.

     (j) A certification as to whether or not the applicant seeks to provide international
telecommunications services to any destination country for which any of the following is true.  The
certification shall state with specificity the foreign carriers and destination countries:

          (1) The applicant is a foreign carrier in that country; or

          (2) The applicant controls a foreign carrier in that country; or

          (3) Any entity that owns more than 25 percent of the applicant, or that controls the applicant,
     controls a foreign carrier in that country.

          (4) Two or more foreign carriers (or parties that control foreign carriers) own, in the aggregate,
     more than 25 percent of the applicant and are parties to, or the beneficiaries of, a contractual
     relation (e.g., a joint venture or market alliance) affecting the provision or marketing of
     international basic telecommunications services in the United States.

     (k) For any destination country listed by the applicant in response to paragraph (j), the applicant
shall make one of the following showings:

          (1) The named foreign country (i.e., the destination foreign country) is a Member of the World
     Trade Organization; or

          (2) The applicant's affiliated foreign carrier lacks market power in the named foreign country; or

          (3) The named foreign country provides effective competitive opportunities to U.S. carriers to
     compete in that country's market for the service that the applicant seeks to provide (facilities-based,
     resold switched, or resold non-interconnected private line services).  An effective competitive
     opportunities demonstration should address the following factors:
     
                (i) If the applicant seeks to provide facilities-based international services, the legal ability of
        U.S. carriers to enter the foreign market and provide facilities-based international services, in
        particular international message telephone service (IMTS);
     
                (ii) If the applicant seeks to provide resold services, the legal ability of U.S. carriers to enter
        the foreign market and provide resold international switched services (for switched resale
        applications) or non-interconnected private line services (for non-interconnected private line
        resale applications);

                (iii) Whether there exist reasonable and nondiscriminatory charges, terms and  conditions for
        interconnection to a foreign carrier's domestic facilities for termination and origination of
        international services or the provision of the relevant resale service;

                (iv) Whether competitive safeguards exist in the foreign country to protect against
        anticompetitive practices, including safeguards such as:

                    (A) Existence of cost-allocation rules in the foreign country to prevent cross-subsidization;

                    (B) Timely and nondiscriminatory disclosure of technical information needed to use, or
          interconnect with, carriers' facilities; and

                  (C) Protection of carrier and customer proprietary information;

                (v) Whether there is an effective regulatory framework in the foreign country to develop,
        implement and enforce legal requirements, interconnection arrangements and other
        safeguards; and

             (vi) Any other factors the applicant deems relevant to its demonstration.

     (l) Any applicant that proposes to resell the international switched services of an unaffiliated U.S.
carrier for the purpose of providing international telecommunications services to a country where it is a
foreign carrier or is affiliated with a foreign carrier shall either provide a showing that would satisfy 
63.10(a)(3) or state that it will file the quarterly traffic reports required by  43.61(c) of this chapter.

     (m) With respect to regulatory classification under  63.10, any applicant that is or is affiliated
with a foreign carrier in a country listed in response to paragraph (i) and that desires to be regulated as
non-dominant for the provision of particular international telecommunications services to that country
should provide information in its application to demonstrate that it qualifies for non-dominant classification
pursuant to  63.10.

     (n) A certification that the applicant has not agreed to accept special concessions directly or
indirectly from any foreign carrier with respect to any U.S. international route where the foreign carrier
possesses market power on the foreign end of the route and will not enter into such agreements in the
future.

*****


16.  Section 63.20 is amended by deleting "63.02," in paragraph (b), by changing "21" to "14" in paragraph
(c), and by revising the first sentence of paragraph (d) to read as follows:

 63.20  Copies required; fees; and filing periods for international service providers.

     (a) ***

     (b) ***

     (c) ***

     (d) Any interested party may file a petition to deny an application within the time period specified
in the public notice listing an application as accepted for filing and ineligible for streamlined processing. 
***


17.  Section 63.21 is amended by revising the section heading, revising paragraph (a), and adding new
paragraphs (i) and (j) to read as follows:

 63.21 Conditions applicable to all international Section 214 authorizations.

***

     (a) Each carrier is responsible for the continuing accuracy of the certifications made in its
application.  Whenever the substance of any such certification is no longer accurate, the carrier shall as
promptly as possible and in any event within thirty days file with the Secretary in duplicate a corrected
certification referencing the FCC file number under which the original certification was provided. The
information may be used by the Commission to determine whether a change in regulatory status may be
warranted under  63.10.  See also  63.11.

*****

     (i) Subject to the requirement of  63.10 that a carrier regulated as dominant along a route must
provide service as an entity that is separate from its foreign carrier affiliate, and subject to any other
structural-separation requirement in Commission regulations, an authorized carrier may provide service
through any wholly owned direct or indirect subsidiaries.  The carrier shall, within 30 days after the
subsidiary begins providing service, file a letter with the Secretary in duplicate referencing the authorized
carrier's name and the FCC file numbers under which the carrier's authorizations were granted and
identifying the subsidiary's name and place of legal organization.  This provision shall not be construed to
authorize the provision of service by any entity barred by statute or regulation from itself holding an
authorization or providing service.

     (j) An authorized carrier, or a subsidiary operating pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section, that
changes its name (including the name under which it is doing business) shall notify the Commission by
letter filed with the Secretary in duplicate within 30 days of the name change.  Such letter shall reference
the FCC file numbers under which the carrier's authorizations were granted.


18.  Section 63.22 is added to read as follows:

 63.22 Facilities-based international common carriers.

     The following conditions apply to authorized facilities-based international carriers:

     (a) A carrier authorized under  63.18(e)(1) may provide international facilities-based services to
international points for which it qualifies for non-dominant regulation as set forth in  63.10, except in the
following circumstance:  If the carrier is, or is affiliated with, a foreign carrier in a destination market and
the Commission has not determined that the foreign carrier lacks market power in the destination market
(see  63.10(a)), the carrier shall not provide service on that route unless it has received specific authority
to do so under  63.18(e)(4).

     (b) The carrier may provide service using half-circuits on any appropriately licensed U.S. common
carrier and non-common carrier facilities (under either Title III of the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended, or the Submarine Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C.  34-39) that do not appear on an
exclusion list published by the Commission.  Carriers may also use any necessary non-U.S.-licensed
facilities, including any submarine cable systems, that do not appear on the exclusion list.  Carriers may
not use U.S. earth stations to access non-U.S.-licensed satellite systems unless the Commission has
specifically approved the use of those satellites and so indicates on the exclusion list, and then only for
service to the countries indicated thereon.  The exclusion list is available from the International Bureau's
World Wide Web site at http://www.fcc.gov/ib.

     (c) Specific authority under  63.18(e)(4) is required for the carrier to provide service using any
facilities listed on the exclusion list, to provide service between the United States and any country on the
exclusion list, or to construct, acquire, or operate lines in any new major common carrier facility project.

     (d) The carrier may provide international basic switched, private line, data, television and business
services.

     (e)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the carrier may provide switched
basic services over its authorized facilities-based private lines if and only if the country at the foreign end
of the private line appears on a Commission list of countries to which the Commission has authorized the
provision of switched services over private lines.  See  63.16.  If at any time the Commission removes the
country from that list or finds that market distortion has occurred in the routing of traffic between the
United States and that country, the carrier shall comply with enforcement actions taken by the Commission.

     (2) The carrier may use its authorized private line facilities to provide switched basic services in
circumstances where the private line facility is interconnected to the public switched network on only one
end   either the U.S. end or the foreign end   and where the carrier is not operating the facility in
correspondence with a carrier that directly or indirectly owns the private line facility in the foreign country
at the other end of the private line.

     (f) The carrier shall file annual international circuit status reports as required by  43.82 of this
chapter.

     (g) The authority granted under this part is subject to all Commission rules and regulations and any
conditions or limitations stated in the Commission's public notice or order that serves as the carrier's
Section 214 certificate.  See  63.12, 63.21.


19.  Section 63.23 is added to read as follows:

 63.23 Resale-based international common carriers.

     The following conditions apply to carriers authorized to resell the international services of other
authorized carriers:

     (a) A carrier authorized under  63.18(e)(2) may provide resold international services to
international points for which the applicant qualifies for non-dominant regulation as set forth in  63.10,
except that the carrier may not provide either of the following services unless it has received specific
authority to do so under  63.18(e)(4):

             (i) Resold switched services to a non-WTO Member country where the applicant is, or is
     affiliated with, a foreign carrier; and

             (ii) Switched or private line services over resold private lines to a destination market where
     the applicant is, or is affiliated with, a foreign carrier and the Commission has not determined that
     the foreign carrier lacks market power in the destination market (see  63.10(a)).

     (b) The carrier may not resell the international services of an affiliated carrier regulated as
dominant on the route to be served unless it has received specific authority to do so under  63.18(e)(4).

     (c) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the carrier may resell the international
services of any authorized common carrier, pursuant to that carrier's tariff or contract duly filed with the
Commission, for the provision of international basic switched, private line, data, television and business
services to all international points.

     (d) The carrier may provide switched basic services over its authorized resold private lines if and
only if the country at the foreign end of the private line appears on a Commission list of countries to which
the Commission has authorized the provision of switched services over private lines.  See  63.16.  If at
any time the Commission removes the country from that list or finds that market distortion has occurred in
the routing of traffic between the United States and that country, the carrier shall comply with enforcement
actions taken by the Commission.

     (e) Any party certified to provide international resold private lines to a particular geographic
market shall report its circuit additions on an annual basis.  Circuit additions should indicate the specific
services provided (e.g., IMTS or private line) and the country served.  This report shall be filed on a
consolidated basis not later than March 31 for the preceding calendar year.

     (f) The authority granted under this part is subject to all Commission rules and regulations and any
conditions or limitations stated in the Commission's public notice or order that serves as the carrier's
Section 214 certificate.  See  63.12, 63.21.


20.  Section 63.24 is added to read as follows:

 63.24 Pro forma assignments and transfers of control.

     (a) Definition.  An assignment of an authorization granted under this part or a transfer of control
of a carrier authorized under this part to provide an international telecommunications service is a pro forma
assignment or transfer of control if it falls into one of the following categories and, together with all
previous pro forma transactions, does not result in a change in the carrier's ultimate control:

             (1) Assignment from an individual or individuals (including partnerships) to a corporation
     owned and controlled by such individuals or partnerships without any substantial change in their
     relative interests;
             (2) Assignment from a corporation to its individual stockholders without effecting any
     substantial change in the disposition of their interests;
             (3) Assignment or transfer by which certain stockholders retire and the interest transferred is
     not a controlling one;
             (4) Corporate reorganization that involves no substantial change in the beneficial ownership
     of the corporation (including reincorporation in a different jurisdiction or change in form of the
     business entity);
             (5) Assignment or transfer from a corporation to a wholly owned direct or indirect subsidiary
     thereof or vice versa, or where there is an assignment from a corporation to a corporation owned or
     controlled by the assignor stockholders without substantial change in their interests; or
             (6) Assignment of less than a controlling interest in a partnership.

     (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a pro forma assignment or transfer of
control of an authorization to provide international telecommunications service is not subject to the
requirements of  63.18.  A pro forma assignee or a carrier that is the subject of a pro forma transfer of
control is not required to seek prior Commission approval for the transaction.  A pro forma assignee must
notify the Commission no later than 30 days after the assignment is consummated.  The notification may be
in the form of a letter (in duplicate to the Secretary), and it must contain a certification that the assignment
was pro forma as defined in paragraph (a) of this section and, together with all previous pro forma
transactions, does not result in a change of the carrier's ultimate control.  A single letter may be filed for an
assignment of more than one authorization if each authorization is identified by the file number under
which it was granted.


PART 64   MISCELLANEOUS RULES RELATING TO COMMON CARRIERS

1.  The authority citation for part 64 continues to read as follows:

          Authority:  47 U.S.C. 160, 201, 218, 226, 228, 332 unless otherwise noted.


2.  Section 64.1002 is amended by changing every occurrence of "63.18(h)(1)(i)" to "63.09(e)" and by
changing every occurrence of "63.18(h)(6)(i)" to "63.18(k)(3)".
                            APPENDIX C

   Exclusion List for International Section 214 Authorizations

       -- Last Amended [insert effective date of rules] --


The following is a list of countries and facilities not covered by grant of global Section 214 authority under
Section 63.18(e)(1) of the Commission's Rules, 47 C.F.R.  63.18(e)(1).  In addition, the facilities listed
shall not be used by U.S. carriers authorized under Section 63.18 of the Commission's Rules unless the
carrier's Section 214 authorization specifically lists the facility.  Carriers desiring to serve countries or use
facilities listed as excluded hereon shall file a separate Section 214 application pursuant to Section
63.18(e)(4) of the Commission's Rules.  See generally 47 C.F.R.  63.22.

          Countries:

                Cuba (Applications for service to Cuba shall comply with the separate filing requirements of
        the Commission's Public Notice Report No. I-6831, dated July 27, 1993, "FCC to Accept
        Applications for Service to Cuba.")

          Facilities:

                All non-U.S.-licensed satellite systems


This list is subject to change by the Commission when the public interest requires.  Before amending the
list, the Commission will first issue a public notice giving affected parties the opportunity for comment and
hearing on the proposed changes.  The Commission may then release an order amending the exclusion list. 
This list also is subject to change upon issuance of an Executive Order.  See Streamlining the Section 214
Authorization Process and Tariff Requirements, IB Docket No. 95-118, FCC 96-79, 11 FCC Rcd 12,884,
released March 13, 1996 (61 Fed. Reg. 15,724, April 9, 1996).  A current version of this list is maintained
at http://www.fcc.gov/ib/td/pf/exclusionlist.html.

For additional information, contact the International Bureau's Telecommunications Division, Policy &
Facilities Branch, (202) 418-1460.

      Statement of Commissioner Harold W. Furchtgott-Roth

               Re:  1998 Biennial Regulatory Review -- Review of International Common Carrier
          Regulations

     I support adoption of this Report and Order wherein, pursuant to the Commission's duty
under Section 11(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. Sect. 161(b), we
have repealed or modified regulations that we have determined to be no longer necessary in the
public interest.  The regulations at issue here were chosen for repeal or modification as part of the
Commission's 1998 Biennial Review, which was conducted pursuant to Section 11(a) of the Act,
Id. at Sect. 161(a).

     However, as thoroughly described in my Report on Implementation of Section 11 by the
Federal Communications Commission (Dec. 21, 1998), which can be found on the FCC's WWW
site at <http://www.fcc.gov/commissioners/furchtgott-roth/reports/sect11.html>, I believe that the
1998 Section 11(a) review was not as thorough as it should have been.  I look forward to
working with the chairman and other commissioners on the 2000 Biennial Review, planning for
which should begin in mid-1999.

                         * * * * * * *
