                    





                         NOTICE


*************************************************************************
             

                         NOTICE


*************************************************************************

This document was originally prepared in Word Perfect.  

If the original document contained--

                    *  Footnotes
                    *  Boldface & Italics

--this information  is missing in this version

The document format (spacing, margins, tabs, etc.) is changed too.

If you need the complete document, download the Word Perfect version.

For information about downloading documents (FTP) see file pnmc5021.

File  pnmc5021 (.txt & .wp) is in directory \pub\Public_Notices\Miscellaneous.

*************************************************************************
                                Before the
                     FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION  
                          Washington, D.C. 20554  
     FCC 95-498
In the Matter of)                           
     )
SPRINT CORPORATION    )          
     )
Petition for Declaratory Ruling        )     I-S-P-95-002
Concerning Section 310(b)(4) and (d) and          )     
the Public Interest Requirements of the           )
Communications Act of 1934, as amended )     



                       DECLARATORY RULING AND ORDER

     Adopted:  December 15, 1995 Released:  January 11, 1996

By the Commission:  Commissioner Chong approving in part and concurring in part;
Commissioners Quello, Barrett, Ness and Chong issuing separate statements.

                             Table of Contents
                                                                 Paragraphs

  I.  INTRODUCTION      1
 II.  BACKGROUND        6
III.  COMMENTS         
      15
IV.   DISCUSSION
 A.   Section 310(d) Transfer of Control                             20
      B.    Public Interest Analysis                                 
      1.    Applicability of the Foreign Carrier Entry
            Decision   31
      2.    Effective Competitive Opportunities Analysis Under 
      Section 214      35
      3.    Effective Competitive Opportunities Analysis Under 
            Section 310(b)(4)47
      4.    Competitive Concerns                                     51
      5.    Countervailing Factors                                   61   
      a.    Liberalization Developments in France and Germany        62
      b.    Effects on Competition in U.S. Markets                   77
      c.    Other Public Interest Factors                            89
      6.    Conditions and Safeguards                                96
 V.   CONCLUSION       134
VI.   ORDERING CLAUSES 138

                             I.  Introduction

 1.   In this declaratory ruling and order, we grant, subject to certain conditions,
Sprint's requests for rulings that the proposed alien ownership in Sprint of up to 28 percent is
not on balance inconsistent with Section 310(b)(4) of the Communications Act (Act), and that
the proposed transaction is not otherwise inconsistent with the public interest.  We also find
that 10 percent equity investments each by France Telecom (FT) and Deutsche Telekom (DT)
in Sprint do not result in a transfer of control of Sprint to FT and DT and thus do not require
prior Commission approval under Section 310(d) of the Act.  

 2.   In our recently adopted Foreign Carrier Entry Order, we stated that we would
evaluate, as an important part of our overall public interest analysis under Sections 214 and
310(b)(4), whether effective competitive opportunities exist for U.S. entities in relevant
foreign markets.  France and Germany do not now offer effective competitive opportunities
to U.S. carriers.  FT and DT are monopoly providers of basic international
telecommunications facilities in these countries.  Nonetheless, two other important public
interest factors weigh in favor of granting the petition:  (1) the current and planned
liberalization of the French and German telecommunications markets; and (2) the competitive
benefits for the U.S. telecommunications markets of the FT and DT investment in Sprint. 

 3.     A critical component of our decision is our conclusion that the French and
German Governments are committed to full competition in their telecommunications markets,
in which U.S. companies will be allowed to participate.  Since our notice of proposed
rulemaking (NPRM) on foreign carrier entry was adopted in February 1995, and following
discussions with Commission representatives, both the French and German Governments
have announced and begun to implement wide-ranging liberalization plans.  Moreover, they
have committed, in letters from senior government representatives filed with the
Commission, to open their telecommunications services and infrastructure markets to limited
competition by July 1996 and full competition by January 1, 1998.  While we do not doubt
the good faith of these commitments, to protect U.S. interests, we find that this transaction is
in the public interest only if Sprint and the parties' Joint Venture comply with certain strict
conditions.  These conditions address (1) the potential for FT and DT to use their current de
jure and de facto monopoly market power to engage in anticompetitive conduct because of
their financial interests in Sprint and the carriers' joint venture and (2) the possibility that the
telecommunications liberalization to which France and Germany have committed may not
occur on the anticipated schedule.  

 4.   First, Sprint is regulated as a dominant carrier on the U.S.-France and U.S.-
Germany routes and will continue to be so regulated until we find that there is no substantial
risk of anticompetitive effects in the U.S. international services market from Sprint's
affiliation with FT and DT.  Second, we will not allow Sprint to operate newly acquired
circuits on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes until France and Germany have
liberalized two important markets:  alternative infrastructure for already liberalized services
(which include most non-public voice services) and basic switched voice resale.  Third, 
Sprint must comply with nondiscrimination and reporting requirements.  Fourth, Sprint must
obtain a commitment from FT to lower its accounting rate with U.S. carriers to the same
range as the U.S.-U.K. and U.S.-Germany accounting rates in the near future and in no
event later than two years from the effective date of this Order.  Finally, Sprint must report
by March 31, 1998 whether the anticipated liberalization has occurred.  If we find it has not,
we will take further action, including designating for hearing the issue of whether the public
interest would no longer be served by Sprint's holding of Section 214 facilities authorizations
on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes.     

 5.   We note that the Department of Justice (Justice Department) has conducted its
own review of this transaction under its antitrust enforcement responsibilities.  The
conditions and requirements we impose here reflect our broader mandate to protect the public
interest and welfare of U.S. consumers.  So long as the parties comply with these conditions
and requirements in conjunction with this transaction, we find that this transaction is in the
public interest.

      II.  Background

 6.   On October 14, 1994, Sprint Corporation (Sprint) filed a petition for
declaratory ruling regarding the proposed equity investments by FT and DT in Sprint and the
proposed joint venture among the three carriers.  First, Sprint seeks a ruling that the
investments by FT and DT do not result in a transfer of control of Sprint and that prior
Commission approval thus is not required under Section 310(d) of the Act of 1934.  Second,
Sprint requests a ruling that alien ownership in Sprint of up to 28 percent, as part of the
proposed transaction, is not inconsistent with Section 310(b)(4) of the Act.  Finally, Sprint
seeks a ruling that the proposed transaction is otherwise consistent with the public interest.

 7.     Sprint is a publicly-traded U.S. corporation that owns or controls subsidiaries
that hold domestic common carrier microwave licenses, international facility authorizations,
cable landing licenses, and other Commission licenses and authorizations.  Sprint conducts
its business through subsidiaries.  Sprint's long distance subsidiary is the third largest U.S.
carrier of long distance services, providing voice, data and video services over a nationwide
digital, fiber optic network.  Its international services are provided primarily via submarine
cable systems and satellite facilities.  In addition, Sprint's subsidiaries provide local
telephone and cellular services.  Through an affiliate, Sprint Telecommunications Venture
(STV), Sprint also is a significant partner in WirelessCo, a major licensee of broadband
personal communications services (PCS).       

 8.     FT is the de jure monopoly service provider in France of local, long distance
and international public switched services, and of terrestrial infrastructure for the provision
of telecommunications services to the public.  It also offers a range of other
telecommunications products and services, including private line circuits and cellular
services.  FT is 100 percent owned by the French government, and is subject to regulation
by the French Directorate General of Posts and Telecommunications (DGPT). 

 9.   Similarly, DT is the de jure monopoly service provider in Germany of local,
long distance and international public switched services.  DT also offers, among other
telecommunications products and services, private line circuits and cellular services.   It is
the monopoly provider of terrestrial infrastructure for the provision of telecommunications
services to the public.  DT is 100 percent owned by the German government, and is subject
to regulation by the German Federal Ministry for Posts and Telecommunications (BMPT). 

 10.  On June 14, 1995, Sprint, FT and DT announced a global alliance, which
involves FT and DT each acquiring up to 10 percent of the voting equity in Sprint.  The cost
of these investments would be based on a complex formula designed to anticipate the possible
divestment of Sprint's U.S. cellular operations, and fluctuations in Sprint's public stock
price.  Under this formula, the investment price could vary from approximately $3.5 to $4.2
billion.  The global partnership among Sprint, FT and DT also involves the creation of
"Joint Venture Company" (Joint Venture), an alliance to provide enhanced and certain basic
telecommunications services to multinational corporate and business customers on a global
basis.  These services include:  (1) international data, voice and video; (2) international card-
based services for travellers; and (3) international transport services for other carriers.

 11.  On July 28, 1995, Sprint filed the final agreements of the parties with the
Commission.  Pursuant to these agreements, the Joint Venture will be run by a Global
Partnership Board.  Each party will have three equal votes on the Board, which will oversee
two operating groups, each focused on specific geographic territories or activities.  In
addition, the parties will create a Global Backbone Network to carry the Joint Venture's
services.  The Global Backbone Network will be owned 50 percent by Sprint and 50 percent
by FT and DT through a joint venture between FT and DT alone, known as Atlas.  In the
near term, Global Backbone Network functions will be performed by two Regional Operating
Groups.  The operating group serving Europe (excluding France and Germany), the Rest of
Europe Group (ROE Group), will be owned one-third by Sprint and two-thirds by FT and
DT.  The unit for worldwide activities outside the United States and Europe, the Rest of the
World Group (ROW Group), will be 50 percent owned by Sprint and 50 percent owned by
FT and DT through Atlas.  Each carrier will be the sole service provider of the Joint
Venture's services within its home territory.  The interests of FT and DT in the Joint
Venture are expected to be managed by Atlas. 

 12.    The Atlas joint venture, together with FT's and DT's global alliance with
Sprint (known as "Phoenix"), are currently under review by the Directorate General IV (DG
IV) of the European Commission.  DG IV has jurisdiction in the European Union to enforce
E.U. competition laws.  On October 18, 1995, DG IV issued a press release stating that the
French and German Governments had made certain liberalization commitments which
adequately address DG IV's competitive concerns about the transaction.  In addition, FT and
DT have agreed that their public switched data networks, Transpac and Datex-P,
respectively, will remain separate from Atlas until 1998.  The parties anticipate that, given
this agreement, the European Commission will issue a public notice in the near future stating
its intention to approve formally the transaction in mid-1996.  Based on these developments,
the parties intend to close their transaction in early 1996. 

   13.  On July 13, 1995, the Justice Department filed a civil antitrust complaint
under Section 15 of the Clayton Act, alleging that the proposed total of 20 percent
investment by FT and DT in Sprint and the formation of the Joint Venture would violate
Section 7 of the Clayton Act.  The Justice Department and the defendants (Sprint and the
Joint Venture), however, have stipulated to the entry of a proposed Final Judgment which the
Justice Department believes provides an adequate remedy to the antitrust concerns posed by
the transaction.  The Justice Department has concluded that a series of conditions and
safeguards, imposed in two phases, are sufficient.  Section II, which imposes many of the
same disclosure and confidentiality requirements set forth in the MCI/BT Final Judgment,
would become effective upon the entry of the Final Judgment and remain in effect for five
years after the conditions for the expiration of Section III have been satisfied.  Section III
establishes certain operating and disclosure requirements and would remain in effect from the
entry of the Final Judgment until all prohibitions on competition have been removed and one
or more new competitors have been licensed in France and Germany.  The proposed Final
Judgment is subject to approval by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.

 14.    As in the MCI/BT proceeding, we note that the Final Judgment and the
accompanying explanatory text of the Competitive Impact Statement (CIS) address many of
our concerns about the potential for discrimination and anticompetitive abuse of foreign
market power by monopoly foreign carriers.  Indeed, much of the Final Judgment's
underlying rationale, as set forth in the CIS, echoes this Commission's policy goals, current
competitive safeguards, and new conditions being imposed in this Order.  As the
Commission recognized nearly thirty years ago, however, "the standards governing [the
Justice Department] and the action of the Commission are significantly different.  The
Antitrust Division is charged with the enforcement of the antitrust laws . . . , while the
Commission is charged with effectuating the policies of the Communications Act."  Our
responsibilities under the Communications Act are broader than those of the antitrust
enforcement agencies, for we are "entrusted with the responsibility to determine when and to
what extent the public interest would be served by competition in the industry."  

                              III.  Comments

 15.    We placed Sprint's petition on public notice.  AT&T Corp. (AT&T), ACC
Global Corp. (ACC), and MFS International, Inc. (MFSI) filed oppositions.  BT North
America Inc. (BTNA) and MCI Telecommunications (MCI) filed comments which generally
oppose the petition.  AirTouch Communications (AirTouch) filed comments in support of
Sprint's petition.  ACC, AT&T, BTNA and Sprint filed reply comments.  C. Fred Bergsten,
the German Association of Private Telecommunications Operators (APTO), International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), and the Information Technology Industry
Council (ITI) filed ex parte letters.

 16.  We also placed the final agreements and related documents on public notice. 
AT&T, Esprit U.K. (Esprit) and MCI filed oppositions.  BTNA, Communications Workers
of America/IBEW (CWA/IBEW) and MFSI filed comments.  ACC, AT&T, DT, Esprit, FT,
and Sprint filed reply comments.  In addition, the French and German Governments filed ex
parte letters.  ACC, AT&T, BTNA, the U.K.'s Office of Telecommunications (OFTEL),
U.S. Senator Bob Dole, and WorldCom, Inc. (WorldCom) also filed ex parte submissions.  

 17.  Only AT&T argues that the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of
Understanding (subsequently incorporated in the final agreements of the parties, including the
Joint Venture and Investment Agreements) results in a transfer of control of Sprint to FT and
DT under Section 310(d) of the Act.  Generally, the commenters maintain that the proposed
transaction raises concerns about potential discrimination (e.g., leveraging of foreign market
power) and asymmetrical market access in France and Germany, and the potential for
exclusive dealing in enhanced and basic services through the Joint Venture.
   
 18.  AT&T, BTNA and CWA/IBEW maintain that the transaction is not in the
public interest under Section 310(b)(4) until France and Germany offer effective market
access to U.S. carriers.  ACC states that the Commission should not grant Sprint's petition
until, among other things, France and Germany permit the resale of international private
lines for the provision of public switched services.  Esprit opposes approval of Sprint's
petition before switched voice telephony competition is introduced in France and Germany,
and independent regulatory bodies are established that can and will effectively enforce
regulations to protect against anticompetitive conduct.  MFSI states that it does not oppose
ultimate approval of the transaction if adequate safeguards are in place and competition is
sufficiently developed in France and Germany.

 19.  OFTEL expresses concern about the lack of independent regulatory authorities
in France and Germany to ensure that the alliance among Sprint, FT and DT does not result
in discriminatory behavior against other market participants.   WorldCom states that
developments in France and Germany require the imposition of certain conditions to
safeguard against discrimination and unreasonable practices by FT and DT.  AT&T adds
that, unlike the equity investment by FT and DT in Sprint, the Joint Venture should be
approved by the Commission with appropriate conditions.  These conditions include certain
operating and disclosure requirements, in addition to those imposed in the MCI/BT
proceeding, together with the requirement that FT and DT set cost-based accounting rates
with U.S. carriers.    

                              IV.  Discussion

A.    Section 310(d) Transfer of Control

 20.  Sprint seeks a declaratory ruling that the proposed investments will not result
in a transfer of control of Sprint's licenses to FT and DT under Section 310(d) of the Act. 
According to Commission precedent, whether an entity holding a minority stock interest
controls a corporation primarily depends on whether the minority shareholder has the power
to "dominate" the management of corporate affairs.  A minority shareholder does not
control a corporation unless it exercises influence to a degree that "determines" the
company's policies and operations, or "dominates" the company's corporate affairs.  Thus,
the facts of a particular situation (e.g., who has the power to direct the company's
operations, who determines the make-up of the Board of Directors), are relevant to
determining who controls the company.  

 21.    Pursuant to the final agreements, FT and DT will each acquire up to a 10
percent equity interest in Sprint by purchasing a new class of Sprint common stock (Class
A).  The total purchase will yield approximately 86.2 million shares of Sprint Class A
common stock.  FT and DT each will own approximately 10 percent of the resulting total of
Sprint common stock.

 22.    Sprint is now controlled by its public shareholders through a 15-member Board
of Directors.  Under the proposed transaction, FT and DT would be able to designate up to
three Board members.  Thus, a 20 percent equity interest would translate into 20 percent
representation on the Board.  A majority of the 15 directors must satisfy certain specified
criteria as independent directors.  Because Sprint's public shareholders will maintain the
majority voting interest in Sprint and will elect 80 percent of the Board (the Sprint and
Independent Directors), FT's and DT's directors will remain a minority.  Sprint will continue
to conduct business by a simple majority vote on all matters considered by the Board.

 23.    In our MCI/BT Order, we found that the acquisition of a 20 percent minority
interest, and the accompanying proportionate representation on the Board of Directors, did
not itself constitute a transfer of control.  We similarly find that FT's and DT's acquisition
of a 20 percent aggregate interest in Sprint and up to 20 percent representation on the Sprint
Board does not itself constitute a transfer of control.  

 24.  We also must determine whether the voting and consent rights in the parties'
agreements would give FT and DT the right to control Sprint.  In addition to its voting
rights, FT's and DT's Class A stock incorporates certain consent rights, including the right
to prohibit certain corporate actions by Sprint without their consent.  These actions include
any transaction that would result in the issuance of 30 percent or more shares in Sprint. 
Other transactions over which FT and DT have consent rights include those that would:  (1)
adversely affect the rights afforded DT and FT by their ownership of Class A stock; (2)
result in mergers or other business combinations in which Sprint would not be the surviving
corporation; (3) result in the sale of Sprint's long distance assets, the fair market value of
which is in excess of certain threshold percentages; or (4) result in the acquisition of a 10
percent or larger holding in Sprint by a major competitor of DT or FT.  

 25.    In the MCI/BT Order, we found similar consent rights to be typical protections
against extraordinary corporate actions that could disadvantage a minority stockholder's
interest in the corporation.  We concluded that such restrictions simply constituted a
minority shareholder's protection and did not rise to the level of transfer of control.  In
addition, the Investment Agreement safeguards Sprint's control over the use of the proceeds
from the investment by giving its Board the ultimate authority to determine how Sprint will
use the proceeds.  In the absence of any contrary evidence, we similarly find the negative
rights accorded FT and DT are mere protections of FT's and DT's investments as minority
shareholders.  

 26.    AT&T also argues that Sprint will transfer operational control of its domestic
operations since Sprint must conform these operations to the strategies and operations of the
Global Venture Board, in which FT and DT will have two representatives to Sprint's one. 
We disagree that such conformance indicates a transfer of operational control.  AT&T
incorrectly bases its argument on the premise that Sprint may always be outvoted by FT and
DT on the Global Venture Board.  To the contrary, no action may be taken by the Global
Venture Board without the affirmative vote of all of the parties.  Thus, Sprint, FT and DT
each have veto power and will not be controlled by the other parties on the Board, whether
in the conduct of their respective domestic operations or otherwise.

 27.    Moreover, all of the parties, including FT and DT, have made the same
commitment to conform their domestic operations to the Global Venture Board's policies. 
Given that each party is obligated to provide Joint Venture services in its home country, it is
not surprising that the parties would deem a conformance commitment from each party
necessary to ensure the delivery of these services according to uniform standards.  Again,
notwithstanding these commitments, Sprint retains negative control to defeat any Global
Venture Board proposition that is contrary to Sprint's interest.  

 28.    Similarly, AT&T states that Sprint is transferring operational control to FT
and DT because it must submit its business plans for partnership services to the Global
Venture Board.  We do not believe that this requirement constitutes a transfer of control. 
Sprint and FT and DT are required to prepare and submit to the Global Venture Board only
business plans relating to Joint Venture activities.  The business plans for Sprint's many
other activities will not be submitted.  We find no reason to disagree with Sprint's
argument that this provision is commercially necessary to ensure that each party meets
uniform service standards and does not take action inconsistent with the parties'
agreements.  We thus conclude that this requirement, which extends to each party and
permits monitoring of the performance of a contractual partner, does not amount to a transfer
of control, particularly given Sprint's negative consent rights on the Global Venture Board.  

 29.    AT&T also asserts that Sprint has given up operational control of its
international facilities.  AT&T argues that, because FT and DT own 50 percent of the Global
Backbone Network, and Sprint is granting the Global Backbone Network use of its
international facilities for the provision of Sprint's international Joint Venture services, Sprint
has conveyed 50 percent of the control of its facilities to FT and DT.  We disagree.  The
use of facilities does not necessarily equate to control of those facilities.  Sprint can maintain
control of its international facilities while allowing the Global Backbone Network or the
Regional Operating Groups to use those facilities.  Allowing joint control over the provision
of Joint Venture services does not grant FT and DT the power to "determine the company's
operations" or "dominate its corporate affairs."  Sprint only has permitted FT and DT a
measure of influence in providing specific services.  Based on these facts, Sprint's grant of
influence to FT and DT does not rise to the level of a transfer of control.

 30.    We conclude that the agreements between Sprint and FT and DT do not grant
FT and DT the right to determine the corporate policy that Sprint will pursue, or indicate
that FT and DT will dominate the management of Sprint's corporate affairs.  Consequently,
we find that the transaction before us does not constitute a transfer of control and, therefore,
does not require Commission approval under Section 310(d) prior to consummation of the
transaction.  Commission approval pursuant to the Cable Landing License Act also is not
required by the specific terms of Sprint's cable landing licenses.  In addition, prior
authorization under Section 214 of the Act is not required to the extent Sprint alone -- and
not the Joint Venture -- will be providing basic Joint Venture services in the United States. 
If the Joint Venture seeks to provide basic services to U.S. customers, the Joint Venture
must then seek prior Section 214 authorization.

B.      Public Interest Analysis

 1.   Applicability of the Foreign Carrier Entry Decision

      a.    Comments

 31.  In their supplemental opposition and comments, AT&T and BTNA urge us to
apply the effective market access standard proposed in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
(NPRM) in the Foreign Carrier Entry proceeding to Sprint's petition for purposes of
determining whether the proposed transaction is in the public interest.  Sprint opposes this
approach.  First, Sprint states that the NPRM is a tentative proposal that has been widely
criticized as the improper means to achieve the Commission's policy goals.  Second, Sprint
asserts that it would be unfair to apply an effective market access approach because Sprint's
petition was pending before the Commission initiated the Foreign Carrier Entry proceeding. 
      
      b.    Discussion

 32.  On November 28, 1995, after the parties filed their supplemental pleadings,
we adopted final rules in the Foreign Carrier Entry proceeding affecting our public interest
analyses under Sections 214 and 310(b)(4).  We concluded in that proceeding that the
public interest in an effectively competitive market for U.S. telecommunications services
requires us to evaluate, as an important part of our overall public interest analysis under
Section 214, whether effective competitive opportunities exist for U.S. carriers in the
destination markets of foreign carriers seeking to enter the U.S. international services market
through an affiliation with a U.S. carrier.  We similarly must examine, in considering
whether to permit foreign investment in a U.S. radio licensee in excess of the benchmarks
contained in Section 310(b)(4), whether relevant foreign home markets offer effective
competitive opportunities to U.S. entities.  Consistent with our broad authority to determine
the public interest under that section, the goals of these new rules are (1) to promote
competition in the U.S. telecommunications market; (2) to prevent anticompetitive conduct in
the provision of international services; and (3) to encourage foreign governments to open
their communications markets to competition.  

 33.    Sprint has requested a declaratory ruling from this Commission that the
investments by FT and DT and the Joint Venture are consistent with the public interest. 
Because Sprint is a carrier authorized to provide telecommunications services and facilities
under Sections 214 and 309 of the Act, we are required to assess the public interest merits of
the investments and the Joint Venture under Sections 214 and 310(b)(4).  If we were to find
that the investments and the Joint Venture were inconsistent with the public interest, and
Sprint were to proceed with the transaction, we could designate for hearing the issue whether
the public interest would continue to be served by Sprint's holding of Title II authorizations
and Title III licenses. 

 34.    It is well established that the Commission may apply new rules and policies to
pending matters.  We disagree with Sprint that it would be unfair to apply our new analysis
to Sprint's petition.  It was not until late July 1995 that Sprint filed the definitive agreements
of the parties with the Commission.  At that time, our Foreign Carrier Entry rulemaking
proceeding had been underway for five months and extensive comments and reply comments
had been filed.  We see no reason why our newly adopted rules and policies should not apply
here.  Accordingly, we will apply our Foreign Carrier Entry decision to the Sprint petition
and adopt this Order effective the day after all rules, regulations and policies adopted in the
Foreign Carrier Entry Order become effective.    

 2.     Effective Competitive Opportunities Analysis Under Section 214

 a.     Comments      
 
 35.    AT&T, BTNA, CWA/IBEW, Esprit, MCI, and MFSI argue that France and
Germany do not afford market access to U.S. carriers because the provision of domestic and
international public switched voice telephony services and telecommunications facilities is
reserved exclusively for FT in France and DT in Germany.  AT&T and BTNA also state
that the French and German telecommunications regulatory regimes lack other important
characteristics, including competitive safeguards and  independent regulatory authorities.     


 b.     Discussion

 36.    Sprint, through its subsidiaries, holds many Section 214 authorizations for the
provision of U.S. international facilities-based services between the United States and France
and the United States and Germany.  In analyzing whether the proposed transaction is in the
public interest, the Foreign Carrier Entry Order requires us to determine whether effective
competitive opportunities exist for U.S. carriers to provide international services in France
and Germany. 

 37.  We first must determine whether the proposed foreign carrier investments rise
to the level of an "affiliation" with a U.S. carrier for purposes of determining whether the
effective competitive opportunities analysis under Section 214 applies in this case.  The
affiliation threshold adopted in the Foreign Carrier Entry Order is an equity interest greater
than 25 percent or a controlling interest at any level.  In addition, we will aggregate multiple
foreign carrier interests when a contractual relation, such as a joint venture or marketing
alliance, between two or more foreign carrier investors is involved, which affects the
provision or marketing of basic international telecommunications services in the United
States.  Foreign carrier investment that does not exceed the 25 percent threshold may
nonetheless be subject to the effective competitive opportunities analysis when the investment
presents a significant potential impact on competition in the U.S. basic international
telecommunications services market.   

 38.    The proposed interests of FT and DT (10 percent each) in Sprint must be
aggregated because the carriers also have joined forces through the Joint Venture.  The
investments represent an important part of a global alliance strategy among Sprint, FT, and
DT, affecting the provision of basic telecommunications services.  The proposed investments
by FT and DT in Sprint, even when aggregated to equal 20 percent, do not exceed the 25
percent affiliation threshold for application of the effective competitive opportunities analysis.

 39.    Review of this transaction under our effective competitive opportunities
analysis is warranted and necessary, however, because of the size of the carriers involved
and the potential impact on competition in the U.S. basic international services market.  FT
and DT are two of the largest telecommunications carriers in Europe; traffic volume between
the United States and France and Germany together accounts for more volume than to any
single country other than Canada and Mexico.  International Message Telephone Service
(IMTS) minutes between the United States and Germany are fourth highest among U.S.
correspondent countries; IMTS minutes between the United States and France are the
thirteenth highest.  Few countries originate and terminate more calls to and from the United
States than France and Germany, which are key locations for multinational corporations.  In
addition, FT and DT propose to invest in the third largest U.S. domestic interexchange and
international services carrier, with approximately 10 percent domestic and international
services market share, not a fledgling start-up.  Given the size of the parties involved and
the strategic investment and joint venture alliance they have planned, we find that the
transaction, although falling below the threshold for automatic application, necessitates an
effective competitive opportunities analysis under the newly adopted rules and policies.

 40.    We turn next to the question of which foreign markets we must analyze. 
Under Section 214, we apply our analysis only to those destination markets where the foreign
carrier can exercise market power.  As we mentioned previously, "market power" is defined
in the Foreign Carrier Entry Order as the ability to act anticompetitively against unaffiliated
U.S. carriers through the control of bottleneck services or facilities on the foreign end.  FT
and DT are the incumbent, monopoly telecommunications facilities providers in France and
Germany, respectively.  Thus, they control bottleneck facilities in those markets and have
market power.  There is no record evidence in this proceeding regarding whether FT or DT
has market power in other foreign markets.  Accordingly, the relevant destination markets
for our analysis in this decision are France and Germany.  We also require Sprint, within 30
days of the effective date of this Order, to notify the Commission of any foreign carrier that
controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with FT or DT.  We will apply the
effective competitive opportunities analysis to these markets unless Sprint demonstrates that
these foreign carriers do not have market power on these routes.     

 41.  In applying our effective competitive opportunities analysis under Section 214,
we first examine the legal, or de jure, ability of U.S. carriers to enter the foreign destination
markets and provide international facilities-based services.  If U.S. carriers are prohibited de
jure from competing in the provision of any international facilities-based IMTS service, then
there are not effective competitive opportunities on that route.  If the foreign carrier's
destination market has no explicit legal restrictions on entry, we then will examine the other
factors of the effective competitive opportunities analysis to determine whether there are de
facto effective competitive opportunities.  This analysis focuses on the actual conditions of
entry, i.e.,  terms and conditions of interconnection, competitive safeguards, and the
regulatory framework.  

 42.    An effective competitive opportunities finding can be made if such
opportunities are present now or if it is reasonably certain that they will be available in the
near future.  Where effective competitive opportunities do not now exist, there will need to
be clear and concrete commitments that effective competitive opportunities will be available
in the near future in order for us to reach a favorable determination.  Finally, we note that
effective competitive opportunities are only a part of a larger public interest analysis; we
must also consider whether other public interest factors mandate grant or denial of an
application.

 43.    To meet the standard of de jure market entry, France and Germany would be
required to permit a U.S. carrier to obtain a controlling interest in a French- or German-
based facilities carrier able to originate and terminate IMTS traffic to and from the United
States.  In France, the provision of IMTS facilities-based service is a legal monopoly of
France Telecom.  The same is true in Germany, where DT holds the legal monopoly over
the provision of international facilities-based service.  U.S. carriers currently are prohibited
as a matter of law from entering this market in both France and Germany.

 44.  We note that both countries have publicly committed to implementing
international facilities and services competition by January 1, 1998.  The French and
German Governments both have proposed plans for enacting national legislation in this
regard.  We are very encouraged by these developments, as we discuss more fully below. 
We view their public statements to be important indications of these countries' intent to
liberalize their markets.  Nonetheless, we believe that implementation of international
facilities competition in 1998, over two years away, is too distant in time to be considered
competition in the near future under our effective competitive opportunities analysis. 
Moreover, the specific legal and regulatory framework for the competitive markets is not yet
fully determined, leaving us unable to evaluate whether de facto competitive opportunities
will exist after the legal barriers are removed. 

 45.  Given that de jure international facilities competition for IMTS is absent in
France and Germany, we find that effective competitive opportunities for U.S. carriers to
operate as international facilities-based carriers currently do not exist in those countries.

 46.  Although Sprint holds resale authorizations to serve France and Germany
which may be subject to an effective competitive opportunities analysis, we see no need to
conduct that analysis here given our finding that France and Germany do not offer effective
competitive opportunities to provide international facilities-based services, and our ultimate
conclusion in Section V below that the public interest weighs in favor of granting Sprint's
petition, subject to certain conditions. 

 3.   Effective Competitive Opportunities Analysis Under Section 310(b)(4)

 47.  The presence of aggregated alien ownership in excess of 25 percent in Sprint,
the parent corporation of Title III common carrier radio licensees, triggers the applicability
of Section 310(b)(4)'s statutory benchmark, which requires that we determine whether the
"public interest will be served by the refusal or revocation of such license."  FT and DT
will each acquire a 10 percent ownership interest in Sprint, a U.S. corporation that controls
Title III licensees.  Based upon a Sprint ownership survey, Sprint maintains that FT's and
DT's proposed acquisition of 10 percent of the shares each in Sprint will result in 25.17
percent alien ownership of Sprint's capital stock (plus or minus 1.74 percent at the 97.5
percent confidence level).  Due to likely fluctuations in alien ownership from the publicly-
traded nature of the company, Sprint believes the alien ownership may exceed the 25 percent
statutory benchmark at any one time by up to three percent.  Therefore, Sprint requests the
Commission to find that up to 28 percent alien ownership in Sprint is not inconsistent with
the public interest.    

 48.    Through a public interest analysis, the Commission decides whether to
authorize or revoke alien ownership or participation in excess of the Section 310(b)(4)
statutory benchmark on a case-by-case basis.  We will first consider the impact of our
newly adopted effective competitive opportunities analysis.  We will then consider the
extent of alien participation in Sprint's parent corporation in assessing the additional public
interest factors relevant to Section 310(b)(4) determinations. 

 49.     In Section IV.B.2, we determined that effective competitive opportunities do
not exist in France or Germany under our Section 214 analysis.  Because we reach the
ultimate conclusion (described in Section V below) that, on balance, the public interest
weighs in favor of granting Sprint's petition subject to certain conditions, we see no reason
to conduct an effective competitive opportunities analysis under Section 310(b)(4).  

 50.    We note, however, that France and Germany have introduced a degree of
competition in their wireless markets, unlike in their wireline facilities markets we examined
above.  This is true with respect to the types of Title III licenses in which FT and DT seek
to invest through Sprint.  Through subsidiaries and affiliates, Sprint holds cellular, paging,
satellite, and common carrier microwave radio licenses.  In addition, Sprint owns interests in
PCS licensees through its affiliate, STV.  STV owns 40 percent of WirelessCo, a major PCS
licensee, and is the largest shareholder.  It would appear that the French and German
paging and satellite markets generally are open at least to the level of ownership
collectively sought by FT and DT in Sprint:  20 percent.  By contrast, there appears to be
less competition in the French and German cellular and PCS markets:  the number of
licenses is limited to one or two in each market.  Finally, we note that the provision of
common carrier microwave radio links is not open to U.S. investment.  We address in
Section IV.B.5.c, infra, whether the proposed alien ownership poses concerns under the
other public interest factors we consider in our Section 310(b)(4) public interest analysis.  

 4.   Competitive Concerns 

 51.  We concluded that effective competitive opportunities are not currently
available to U.S. carriers under Section 214 for the provision of international
telecommunications facilities or services in France and Germany because of de jure
monopolies in both countries.  Before our effective competitive opportunities analysis was
adopted, the majority of commenters in this proceeding expressed concerns about the market
power conferred by these monopolies in France and Germany.  These parties are troubled by
the effect that the Sprint/FT/DT alliance may have on competition in several
telecommunications markets as a result of the potential for discrimination or other
anticompetitive conduct.  The same kinds of concerns also were raised in the MCI/BT
proceeding, and we agree that these concerns are important public interest considerations
under Sections 4(i), 214, 310(b)(4) and 316 of the Act, and other relevant statutory
provisions, and possibly implicate our enforcement responsibilities under the Clayton Act. 
We thus address these concerns in this proceeding, independent of our effective competitive
opportunities analysis.    

 a.     Comments
 
 52.  A number of parties raise specific competitive concerns about FT's and DT's
proposed investment in Sprint and the formation of the Joint Venture.  They argue that FT's
and DT's substantial equity investment in Sprint, and their interests in the Joint Venture,
create financial incentives for FT and DT to use their monopoly positions in the French and
German telecommunications markets to discriminate in favor of Sprint over competing U.S.
international carriers on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes, and in providing
transiting services to Eastern and Central Europe.  ACC, AT&T, BTNA, and MCI argue
that FT, DT, and Sprint will be able to use FT's and DT's absolute bottleneck of access
facilities in their home countries to the unfair advantage of Sprint and the Joint Venture. 
Furthermore, they argue, FT, DT and Sprint have the incentive and ability to enter into
exclusive arrangements directing all international switched and private line traffic to each
other.  AT&T states that Sprint will have 50 percent control over FT's and DT's
correspondent relationships with U.S. carriers (through its ownership in Joint Venture
operations), and thus will have the opportunity to discriminate against other U.S. carriers. 
OFTEL expresses concern that France and Germany do not have independent regulatory
authorities that can ensure that effective competition is in fact implemented.     

 53.    In response to the assertions that FT, DT and Sprint will engage in unlawful
discrimination and enter into exclusive arrangements for the provision of international basic
telecommunications services, Sprint reaffirms its intent -- and states that FT and DT have
reaffirmed their intent -- to continue their correspondent relations with other international
carriers.  Moreover, Sprint, FT and DT state they will not impermissibly exclude
competitors from the market for regulated basic services or unlawfully discriminate in favor
of the other in accounting rates and settlements.  In addition, Sprint emphasizes that it will
not be involved in carrying the bilateral correspondent traffic of other U.S. carriers.  They
also assert that FT and DT are legally required, by national and E.U. regulation, to offer
nondiscriminatory access to their networks.  FT and DT state that the DGPT and the BMPT
have demonstrated their independence from FT and DT in the past and will continue to do
so.  In addition, Sprint claims that the potential for discrimination is less in this case than in
the MCI/BT proceeding because Sprint carries approximately a third as much international
traffic as MCI, and the equity investments by FT and DT are only 10 percent each, thus
proportionately reducing their incentives to discriminate in favor of Sprint.

 54.  Finally, in response to AT&T's claims that FT and DT have agreed to
impermissibly "steer" customers to the Joint Venture, Sprint claims that it is commercially
reasonable and expected that parties to a joint venture will attempt to sell the joint venture's
services to unsolicited customers.  Sprint also emphasizes that customers are not steered by
the Joint Venture to Sprint, but only to the Joint Venture itself.      

      b.    Discussion

 55.  We share the parties' fundamental concerns about the potential for
anticompetitive behavior by FT and DT on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes.  FT
and DT are monopoly providers of French and German international facilities-based services,
control the local termination points in those countries, and control the national long distance
networks to which interconnection is essential for the distribution of international traffic.  

 56.  Before the proposed transaction, FT and DT had no incentive to discriminate
in favor of Sprint, the Joint Venture or any of their competitors over others.  The proposed
transaction, however, will give FT and DT each a substantial financial stake in the success of
Sprint and the Joint Venture and will, therefore, give each an incentive to engage in
anticompetitive strategies to maximize the return on their investment.  This discrimination
could take a number of forms, such as:  (1) routing calls to Sprint and the Joint Venture in
proportions greater than those justified under our proportionate return policy; (2) otherwise
manipulating the calculations and settlements payments to wrongfully favor Sprint and the
Joint Venture; (3) routing high-profit calls to Sprint and the Joint Venture, and leaving the
rest to their competitors; (4) undercharging Sprint and the Joint Venture and/or overcharging
their competitors for use of the same essential facilities in France or Germany; (5) leaking to
Sprint and the Joint Venture the confidential information that FT or DT receives from
Sprint's and the Joint Venture's competitors; (6) giving Sprint and the Joint Venture advance
notice of network changes and other information that Sprint, the Joint Venture and their
competitors will need to know; or (7) either as an agent or through an affiliated third party,
selling the services of Sprint or the Joint Venture in ways that use FT's and DT's home
market power. 

 57.  Absent effective conditions, such strategic behavior could yield Sprint more
customers, calls and revenues, and ultimately higher returns, than would otherwise be the
case.  Sprint would receive these returns simply because of its affiliation with FT and DT
and not because of the superior quality, lower prices, or innovativeness of its services.  At
the same time, the costs of Sprint's rivals would be raised above competitive levels, which
would tend to reduce competition in the market as a whole.  Less competition would
ultimately result in impaired market performance:  higher prices, lower quality, and slower
innovation compared to what would exist in the absence of such conduct.

 58.  We reject Sprint's claims that FT and DT have no more leveraging power than
BT did in our MCI/BT proceeding.  Sprint argues that BT retains substantial market power in
the United Kingdom and the ability to use this power to favor MCI at the expense of other
carriers.  Sprint overlooks the fact that, in the United Kingdom, there is de jure competition
in nearly every market segment.  BT faces competition to some extent at all levels.  The
effect is that, unlike in France and Germany, in the United Kingdom U.S. carriers have a
choice of carriers to haul their traffic.  There also is an effective regulatory authority that is
independent of BT, which employs fair and transparent procedures.  U.S. carriers may resort
to this authority in the event of anticompetitive conduct by BT.  There currently are no such
independent regulatory authorities with fair and transparent procedures in France or
Germany.  Notwithstanding FT's and DT's statements that the DGPT and the BMPT do not
favor FT or DT, we share OFTEL's concerns about the current lack of legally independent
regulatory authorities in France and Germany to ensure that fair, effective competition
emerges in both countries.  
  
 59.  We also are not persuaded by Sprint's claim that the individual incentives on
the part of FT and DT to discriminate in favor of Sprint or the Joint Venture are less than in
the MCI/BT case because FT and DT are each purchasing only 10 percent of Sprint's equity. 
The Joint Venture arrangement provides for FT and DT to act in concert, and creates
additional incentives beyond their investments in Sprint for FT and DT to favor unfairly
Sprint and the Joint Venture.  Thus, FT and DT generally have complementary interests
regarding their involvement with Sprint.  

 60.  We also do not agree with the arguments of Sprint, FT and DT that national
and E.U. regulatory prohibitions on discriminatory conduct by FT and DT are sufficient to
protect competition.  Such provisions are likely to be inadequate when, as in this case, there
is de jure 100 percent monopoly market power and an incentive to discriminate, and the
carriers remain completely government-owned.  Such provisions also cannot address the
unfair competitive advantage that may accrue to Sprint, particularly in the U.S. market for
global, seamless services, by virtue of its strategic alliance with FT and DT. 

 5.     Countervailing Factors

 61.    While France and Germany do not currently offer effective competitive
opportunities to U.S. carriers under Section 214, and FT and DT have both the incentive and
ability to favor Sprint over competing carriers, there are strong countervailing reasons to
grant the Sprint petition.  First, the recent liberalization efforts in France and Germany have
resulted in commitments to open various segments of their national monopolies to
competition before 1998.  Second, the FT and DT investment of $3.5-4.2 billion in Sprint
will have a procompetitive impact on the U.S. telecommunications market, subject to
conditions.  Given these factors, we find, as the Justice Department has, that the competitive
concerns arising from this transaction can be addressed through conditions and safeguards, in
anticipation of the French and German markets opening to U.S. carriers in 1998.  

 a.     Liberalization Developments in France and Germany

 i.     Comments

 62.    AT&T and BTNA state that numerous liberalization proposals before the E.U.
Commission and French and German Governments are still pending and the final results are
uncertain.  They state that there are no assurances that the proposed reforms will become
law, or that implementing regulations and licenses will be issued.  They also assert that there
is no certainty that the current liberalization proposals will extend to facilities or services
provided between E.U. member states and third countries.  Finally, BTNA states that neither
the French nor German Governments plan to relinquish majority ownership and control over
FT or DT in the near future.      

 ii.    Discussion

 63.    A critical factor in our approval of the proposed transaction is the policy shift
in France and Germany towards competitive telecommunications markets.  We recognize that
this trend likely will be opposed.  We also realize that, as AT&T and BTNA point out,
timely, effective implementation of planned liberalization steps remains to be accomplished. 
Current developments, however, cannot be ignored in considering the proposed transaction.  

 64.    As we mentioned above, Sprint filed its petition in October 1994.  In February
1995, we adopted the NPRM in our foreign carrier entry proceeding which proposed that,
when foreign carriers seek to enter the U.S. telecommunications market or become affiliated
with a U.S. carrier, the Commission examine whether the relevant foreign
telecommunications markets afford effective market access to U.S. carriers.  Since the
NPRM was released, the French and German Governments each have made specific
commitments for further telecommunications liberalization.

 65.    We have already noted the specific liberalization commitments made by the
French and German Governments.  On October 20, 1995, in a letter to Commission
Chairman Hundt, the French Government stated that it soon will allow entities other than FT
to build and operate facilities (known as "alternative infrastructure") to offer already
liberalized services.  These services include data communications and closed user groups,
but exclude public switched voice telephony.  The French Government states that legislation
to enact this measure will be introduced in the French Parliament in the Spring of 1996, and
will take effect by July 1, 1996.  The French Government has made the same commitment
regarding the liberalization of alternative infrastructure to the European Commission in the
context of DG IV's review of the Atlas and Phoenix transactions.  

 66.    Earlier this year, the DGPT issued an experimental license to MFSI, a U.S.-
owned company, to construct and operate a metropolitan network designed to serve the needs
of closed user groups for data and voice communications.  According to the French
Government, other experimental alternative infrastructure licenses that will permit provision
of public voice telephony services will be issued in early 1996.  

 67.    Similarly, on October 17, 1995, the German Government submitted a letter to
Commission Chairman Hundt in which it stated its commitment to allowing alternative
facilities providers to commence operations as of July 1, 1996.  Like the French
Government, the German Government also has made this commitment to the European
Commission.  In addition, the German Government states that further liberalization steps
are possible before 1998 provided that they do not infringe on the exclusive rights held by
DT.  We note that ACC indicates that it received approval in June 1995 from the German
Ministry to operate as a switchless reseller of DT's monopoly public switched voice
services.
   
 68.    The liberalization of alternative infrastructure in the French and German
telecommunications markets is an important first step towards the introduction of full and
effective facilities and services competition.  Alternative infrastructure providers will be
permitted to compete with FT and DT to carry most non-public switched voice services,
including data communications and intracorporate network services.  Thus, potential
competitors of FT, DT and the Joint Venture will have the legal ability to choose between
underlying carriers for liberalized services, a useful hedge against certain types of
anticompetitive conduct by FT or DT.

 69.    In their letters submitted in this proceeding, the French and German
Governments also have firmly committed to implementing full facilities and services
competition by January 1, 1998.  The French Government filed with the Commission a copy
of its recently announced proposal for wide-ranging liberalization of the French
telecommunications regulatory regime.  The French Ministry of Information Technology and
Postal Services issued this document in October 1995.  A "public consultation document"
entitled "New Ground Rules for Telecommunications in France," the document outlines the
key features of the French Government's planned regulatory regime.  It states that licenses of
general applicability will be issued for most telecommunications services.  Individual licenses
will be issued for three categories:  (1) operators of networks providing service to the
general public; (2) providers of telephone services to the public; and (3) operators of radio-
based networks.  In addition, the French Government states that there will be no
limitations on the number of licenses unless justified by frequency scarcity.

 70.    Regarding interconnection, the public consultation document states that any
authorized service provider will have the right to access networks open to the public.  FT
will have more extensive obligations, including publishing an interconnection "reference
offer," which will contain basic terms and conditions, rates, and interconnection points, by
July 1997.  This offer must be approved by a national regulatory authority.  In addition, the
"Select Committee," a group of independent experts, will review possible cost accounting
methods.  Mandatory and independent audited cost-accounting measures will be developed,
according to the public consultation document, to ensure cost-oriented pricing and to prevent
anticompetitive cross-subsidization.  The public consultation document further provides that
operators will be able to appeal to the national regulatory authority for interconnection
dispute resolution.

 71.    The responsibility for supporting universal service will be shared among public
operators; costs will be assessed and independently audited through transparent procedures by
the Select Committee.  Finally, the French Government states that a national regulatory
authority will be established to ensure effective regulation.  The public consultation document
proposes two possible approaches to this authority.  Under the first approach, the authority
would handle arbitration and enforcement; regulation would be handled within the Ministry. 
Under the second approach, the national regulatory authority would handle regulatory
functions as well, and would be independent of the Ministry.
  
 72.    The German Government also has taken steps to achieve full facilities and
services liberalization by January 1, 1998.  A Ministry draft Telecommunications Act, which
the German Government expects to introduced in the German Parliament in early 1996,
details the regulatory principles for the new regime.  The German Government's letter
further explains these provisions.  Licenses will be required for all service providers seeking
to provide facilities or services currently within DT's monopoly, including public voice
telephony.  The number of licenses will not be restricted, except for radio licenses when
warranted because of scarce resources.  In addition, there will be no foreign investment
restrictions on licensing.

 73.    Many of the details of the German interconnection regime have yet to be
established.  The Ministry states that dominant carriers (such as DT) will have the obligation
to interconnect other carriers to their networks, and interconnection will be subject to
regulatory review.  In addition, universal service will include public voice telephony and
certain types of leased lines.  The Ministry states that only in exceptional cases will universal
service obligations be imposed, and then only the dominant carrier or a service provider
chosen through bidding procedures will be subject to such obligations.  Should this provider
incur deficits because of this obligation, service providers with more than five percent market
share will be required to contribute in proportion to their market share.  Finally, the
Ministry states that an independent federal regulatory authority, equipped with enforcement
powers, will be established to implement the regulatory objectives of the new federal
legislation.   

 74.    We also note that European Union has established January 1, 1998, as the date
by which most Member States, including France and Germany, must fully open their
telecommunications markets by liberalizing existing monopolies for public voice telephony
services and transmission facilities.  The European Council of Ministers agreed in June 1995
that such liberalization should occur.  Carrying out this agreement, the European
Commission adopted, on July 19, 1995, a draft directive mandating full facilities and services
liberalization as of January 1, 1998.  The same draft directive would require E.U. Member
States, including France and Germany, to permit the use of alternative infrastructure for the
provision of already liberalized services in 1996.  When this directive is made final, which is
expected to occur in early 1996, the European Commission will have the authority to initiate
enforcement action should liberalization not occur in France and Germany as required. 

        75.    We believe these commitments indicate that the French and German
Governments are serious about telecommunications liberalization.  We note that when the
Sprint petition was filed last year, there were few, if any, liberalization plans in either
country.  Since that time, both Governments have announced concrete plans for increased
competition leading to full facilities and services competition in 1998.  Liberalization of
alternative infrastructure will require FT and DT to relinquish their monopoly over the
provision of telecommunications facilities to all customers, including their own competitors. 
Thus, they will no longer necessarily control significant cost components of their
competitors' service offerings.

        76.    Of course, timely implementation and the development of effective regulatory
rules remain to be accomplished.  For example, in each country, not only must final
legislation be enacted to formally remove the legal monopoly status, but an interconnection
regime must be established, competitive safeguards must be implemented, and an independent
regulatory body must be put in place to ensure effective competition.  Nonetheless, we
realize that the implementation of effective competition takes time, and the French and
German Governments have committed themselves to this process and have established firm
timetables for introducing full competition.  We believe these commitments weigh in favor of
granting Sprint's petition. 

 b.     Effects on Competition in U.S. Markets

 i.     Comments

 77.    Sprint states in its petition that FT's and DT's $3.5-4.2 billion investment
would be used for a number of procompetitive purposes, both domestically and globally. 
Domestically, Sprint asserts, these funds will enable it to "expand and upgrade its existing
network, to undertake additional research and to develop new applications and services." 
In addition, Sprint states that the capital invested by FT and DT will enable it to participate
fully in its broadband PCS venture, WirelessCo.  Finally, Sprint asserts that the investment
will enable Sprint to participate fully in its global seamless services joint venture with FT and
DT.  Sprint states that the investment also would enable it to retire debt and thus improve its
credit rating.  Only AT&T responds to Sprint's assertions, stating that Sprint has not
demonstrated that it could not raise the capital in the worldwide financial markets.  AT&T
also argues that in any event the public interest benefits of the proposed transaction do not
outweigh the potential for competitive harm.  

 ii.    Discussion
 
 78.    A second critical factor in our approval of the proposed transaction is the
procompetitive effects in U.S. markets of the FT and DT investment in Sprint.  In addition
to the effective competitive opportunities analysis, our Foreign Carrier Entry Order cites
other factors that will be considered important in our overall public interest analysis for
foreign carrier entry, including the general significance of the proposed entry to the
promotion of competition in the U.S. communications market.  We are persuaded by
Sprint's arguments regarding the value of the transaction to Sprint as a competitor in the
U.S. telecommunications market and find that the procompetitive benefits of the proposed
transaction to U.S. telecommunications markets are significant and justify approving the
transaction.  Moreover, we do not agree with AT&T that Sprint should demonstrate it cannot
raise the capital elsewhere in order for the investments by FT and DT to be considered a
positive public interest factor.  There likely are many reasons behind Sprint's choice to raise
capital through equity partners rather than through the world's financial markets.  Taking on
more debt, for example, could involve greater transaction costs than would otherwise be the
case.  In any event, we find no reason to question Sprint's representations that it needs these
investments to participate fully in various sectors of the U.S. communications market, as
discussed below.    
  
 79.    To begin our analysis of these claims, we examine the markets in which the
proposed transaction will have competitive effects.  These relevant markets include: 
domestic interexchange services; terrestrial commercial mobile radio services (CMRS); U.S.
international services; and global seamless services.  

 (a)    Domestic Interexchange Services

 80.    In the domestic interexchange services market, the major competitors and
market shares in 1994 were AT&T, 55 percent; MCI, 17 percent; Sprint, 10 percent; LDDS
(now WorldCom), 3 percent; and the remaining 15 percent shared by more than 400 other
carriers.  FT and DT currently are not involved in this market.  Although capital
investment is not, by itself, necessarily procompetitive or efficient, the competitive forces
in the domestic interexchange market will likely drive Sprint to devote the investment to
making itself a stronger competitor in the ways it describes.  Sprint's strengthening of
itself as a competitor against its larger rivals, AT&T and MCI, should yield procompetitive
benefits for consumers.  In addition, by permitting Sprint to expand and upgrade its
existing network, undertake additional research and develop new applications and services,
the capital should ultimately benefit consumers through lower prices and more service
choices.  Moreover, we find there are no apparent anticompetitive effects occurring in this
market as a result of FT's and DT's investment.  Accordingly, we find that the proposed
transaction will have a procompetitive effect in the domestic interexchange services market. 

 (b)    Terrestrial CMRS

 81.    CMRS consists of certain mobile radio telecommunications services that are
interconnected to the public switched telecommunications network and are offered to the
general public (or a substantial portion of it) for profit.  Terrestrial CMRS includes
cellular, paging, specialized mobile radio, interconnected business radio, and broadband and
narrowband PCS.  There are numerous existing competitors in this market, including
AT&T, the Regional Bell Holding Companies and GTE.  Sprint owns a 40 percent
partnership interest, through its affiliate STV, in WirelessCo, which holds more broadband
PCS licenses than any other entity.  The other partners in WirelessCo are three cable
television multiple system operators.  WirelessCo is expected to provide broadband PCS in
competition with other CMRS providers and, perhaps, with providers of wireline local
exchange services.   

 82.    We agree with Sprint that this capital infusion to its wireless activities is an
important procompetitive effect of the proposed transaction.  To the extent Sprint plans to
use the proposed investment to fund its PCS ventures to compete with current CMRS and
wireline local exchange providers, the proposed transaction will be procompetitive.  In the
local exchange wireline market in particular, competition is nascent.  There do not appear to
be, and no party alleges, any anticompetitive effects in this market resulting from FT's and
DT's proposed investment.  Accordingly, we find that the proposed transaction will have
important procompetitive effects in the terrestrial CMRS market.

 (c)    U.S. International Services

 83.    In 1993, AT&T's IMTS market share in terms of U.S. originated and
terminated minutes was approximately 63 percent; MCI's share was approximately 24
percent; Sprint's share was approximately 10 percent; and the remaining 3 percent were
scattered.  As in the domestic interexchange market, the FT/DT capital contribution would
enable Sprint to upgrade its international facilities and provide new applications beneficial to
U.S. customers.  Neither FT nor DT has a market share of its own.  Thus the proposed
transaction would not increase Sprint's market share in the sense that FT's nor DT's market
shares would be combined with Sprint's market share.  More vigorous competition by Sprint,
the third largest international services carrier, would result in tangible benefits to customers,
and is procompetitive.  Specifically, Sprint's investment in its infrastructure and in the
development of new applications should lead to a broadened range of customer choices, more
price competition, and better quality service offerings in this market.  These procompetitive
effects are essentially the same type as we expect in the domestic interexchange market and
noted as attendant benefits in the MCI/BT decision.  In summary, we conclude that, on
balance, the proposed transaction will have procompetitive effects in the U.S. international
services market, assuming the Sprint complies with the conditions described below.
  
      (d)   Global Seamless Services

 84.  In addition, we expect the transaction to have a procompetitive effect in the
global seamless services market.  Global seamless services is an emerging product market of
worldwide geographic scope, which we discussed briefly in the MCI/BT decision.  At
present, the product dimension of this market consists of a combination of voice, data, video
and other telecommunications services that are offered by a single source over an integrated
international network of owned or leased facilities, and that have the same quality,
characteristics, features and capabilities wherever they are provided.  This end-to-end service
offers the advantage to customers of "one-stop shopping" and single-source billing.  The
principal customers are high-end users such as multinational corporations, but individuals and
carriers may also be customers.

 85.    The Joint Venture plans to offer mid-size and large multinational business
customers a variety of seamless voice, data, private line and videoconferencing options. 
These include global virtual private networks, international private lines and private
networks, high-speed data offerings, packet-switched networks, bandwidth management
products, store-and forward fax, and electronic mail.  The services may employ advanced
technologies such as frame relay, asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) and synchronous
digital hierarchy (SDH) technologies, and may be basic or enhanced, depending on the needs
of users.  Lower volume users and travelers will be offered a number of global card and
travel products.  According to Sprint, these products will permit easy and cost-efficient
access by individual users to international calling services worldwide on a pre-paid and post-
paid card basis.  For users outside of their home markets, Sprint states, third-country calling
will provide an easy and efficient way to reach other international points worldwide.  These
customers will be traditional facilities-based carriers, as well as emerging carriers, resellers
and niche service providers.  In addition, the Joint Venture will offer transit and global
termination services.  Computer-based platforms for advanced carrier services also will be
marketed to other carriers.  

 86.    At the time of our decision in MCI/BT, there were no established global
seamless service providers.  Today, there are several such providers in this market.  As the
Justice Department noted in its Competitive Impact Statement, global seamless service
providers consist mainly of various carrier alliances, including AT&T's partnerships (through
Worldpartners and Uniworld), and the MCI/BT alliance (Concert).  The Joint Venture
between Sprint, FT and DT would add another significant competitor to this market.  Each
of these alliances is targeting essentially the same potential global market for the world's
large business customers. 

 87.    We believe Sprint's entry, through the Joint Venture, into the global seamless
services market will yield significant competitive benefits for U.S. customers.  The
establishment of a new, viable competitor in this area should result in more competitive
options for U.S. customers, particularly in terms of pricing and variety of services available
for large scale, high-end customers such as multinational corporations.  In addition, the Joint
Venture should offer a number of efficiencies for Sprint, such as greater economies of scale,
easier entry into new markets and the sharing of risks.  Given that several strong competitors
already exist in this market, the procompetitive effects of the Sprint/FT/DT transaction
outweigh any possible anticompetitive results in this market. 

 iii.      Summary

 88.    We thus find that the transaction offers the additional public interest benefits of
significant procompetitive effects in the U.S. market and, in particular, in the domestic
interexchange, terrestrial CMRS, international, and global seamless services markets.  The
infusion of capital by FT and DT will assist Sprint's further development in markets in which
it is already competing, and will facilitate Sprint's entry into new, undeveloped markets, to
the ultimate benefit of U.S. customers.  We disagree with AT&T that the public interest
benefits of the proposed transaction discussed above do not outweigh the potential
competitive harm, particularly given the conditions we impose.  Thus, we find that these
public interest factors weigh strongly in favor of granting Sprint's petition, subject to the
conditions discussed below.        

 c.     Other Public Interest Factors

 89.    Other factors cited in our Foreign Carrier Entry Order that may be considered
as part of the overall public interest analysis for foreign carrier entry include cost-based
accounting rates, and any national security or law enforcement issues, foreign policy or trade
concerns raised by the Executive Branch.  In addition, the extent of alien participation in
Sprint's parent corporation is a public interest factor under Section 310(b)(4).

 90.  AT&T argues that the implementation of cost-based accounting rates by FT
and DT should be a precondition of approval of the petition.  We decline to adopt the
specific approach advocated by AT&T.  We decided in the Foreign Carrier Entry Order that
we would not take AT&T's approach, but instead would consider cost-based accounting rates
as an additional public interest factor.  The accounting rates between the United States and
Germany have significantly decreased in the last 10 years, following a general global trend. 
In 1985, the accounting rate between the United States and Germany was 1.2 Special
Drawing Rights (SDR) (approximately $1.32); in 1995, the rate was 0.26 SDR
(approximately $0.39).  Although there remains room for further progress, Germany has
taken significant strides towards a cost-based accounting rate.  

 91.  The accounting rates between the United States and France also have decreased
in the last 10 years, but much less than the U.S.-Germany rates.  They remain significantly
above cost.  In 1985, the accounting rate between the United States and France was 1.6
(SDR) (approximately $1.76); in 1995, the rate was 0.36 SDR (approximately $0.54). 
Today, the U.S.-France accounting rate is nearly 28 percent above the U.S.-Germany and
U.S.-U.K. accounting rates.  There is no possible justification for this difference.  Given
the similar levels of infrastructure and economic development in France, Germany and the
United Kingdom, the high volume of calls originated and terminated in each country, and the
geographic proximity of the these countries, the costs of originating and terminating U.S.
traffic in France should be similar to the costs for Germany and the United Kingdom.  But
while the U.S.-Germany and U.S.-U.K. rates are in the same range, the U.S.-France
accounting rate is significantly higher.

 92.    Thus, although the accounting rates with France and Germany are moving
downward, they remain well above cost, particularly in the case of France.  Accordingly, we
find this to be a negative factor in our public interest analysis, especially for France.  We
thus find that this transaction is in the public interest only if Sprint obtains a written
commitment from FT to lower the accounting rate between the United States and France to
the same range as the U.S.-U.K. and U.S.-Germany accounting rates, as described more
fully below in paragraph 131.   

 93.    With respect to the other public interest factors laid out in the Foreign Carrier
Entry Order, we note that the Executive Branch has not advised us of any national security, 
law enforcement, foreign policy, or trade concerns that support grant or denial of the
petition.  
 94.  We next analyze the extent of alien participation in Sprint's parent corporation
as a public interest factor identified in the Foreign Carrier Entry Order as relevant to our
analysis under Section 310(b)(4).  Upon consummation of the transaction, Sprint could at
any time have up to 28 percent alien ownership (10 percent FT, 10 percent DT and
approximately 6.2 percent non-FT or -DT, with a 3 percent margin for fluctuation), with 80
percent U.S. directors and 100 percent U.S. officers.  Both prior to and after consummation
of the transaction, however, 100 percent of the officers and directors of Sprint's wholly-
owned Title III common carrier licensee subsidiaries will be U.S. citizens.  Sprint
maintains that the aggregated 28 percent alien ownership is consistent with the public interest
and the Commission's decision in MCI/BT and falls within Commission precedent permitting
alien ownership in excess of the statutory benchmark.  
 
 95.   In the common carrier context, the Commission's decision whether to
permit a level of alien ownership or participation that exceeds the statutory benchmark
traditionally has taken into account the overall level of alien involvement in the ownership
and management of the parent company.  Recently, the Commission approved 92 percent
alien ownership in the alien parent of a U.S. subsidiary which would control a licensee
where more than 50 percent of the directors and 85 percent of the officers of the subsidiary
would be U.S. citizens.  As in the MCI/BT proceeding, it is only the potential for a three
percent fluctuation in alien ownership beyond the 25 percent statutory benchmark that causes
the petitioners to seek a favorable Section 310(b)(4) declaratory ruling.  In addition, this
transaction involves a dominant U.S. presence among Sprint's officers, directors and
shareholders.  Approval of the percentage of alien ownership in Sprint resulting from the
transaction with FT and DT is consistent with the previous cases in which we have
determined it would not be in the public interest to prohibit levels of indirect alien ownership
of common carrier licensees in excess of that proposed by Sprint.  Thus, our analysis of
the extent of alien participation in Sprint's parent corporation under Section 310(b)(4) weighs
in favor of approval.  

 6.  Conditions and Safeguards

 a.     Comments

 96.    As noted above, a number of parties urge us to deny Sprint's petition until
France and Germany open their telecommunications markets and offer effective market
access.  In addition to FT's and DT's monopoly status, these parties cite the lack of
competitive safeguards and independent regulators as major deficiencies of the current French
and German regulatory regimes.  In addition to the competitive concerns mentioned in
Section IV.B.4, AT&T, BTNA, CWA/IBEW, and ITI state that approval of Sprint's petition
will remove incentives for faster liberalization in France and Germany.  These parties also
assert that approval of the transaction would undercut the U.S. Government's bargaining
position in the Negotiating Group on Basic Telecommunications (NGBT).  Several parties
also propose that, in the event we approve the transaction, we should impose certain
conditions.  For example, AT&T states that the Commission should withhold approval of the
equity investment and permit the parties' Joint Venture to proceed with conditions. 

 97.    ACC and MFSI urge the Commission to treat Sprint as a dominant carrier on
the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes.  They also believe that the conditions imposed by
the Justice Department on MCI/BT, including transparency, confidentiality and international
simple resale requirements, should be imposed in this proceeding.  Worldcom requests that
the Commission condition any approval of Sprint's petition upon requirements that FT and
DT implement cost-based local switched rates, and not discriminate in their provisioning and
maintenance of facilities.  Finally, Senator Dole urges the Commission not to artificially
"freeze" Sprint's communications capacity because an arbitrary limit on communications
capacity will not alleviate concerns about foreign market leveraging.                    

 b.     Discussion

        98.    We have concluded that, in the overall public interest under Sections 214 and
310(b)(4), we should not withhold a positive public interest finding regarding the transaction
until France and Germany offer effective competitive opportunities or the market access
requirements suggested by a number of the parties.  We are not discounting the importance
of these factors; indeed, we expect these factors, including a fair and transparent
interconnection regime, competitive safeguards, and an independent regulator, to be
implemented in France and Germany by 1998.  But we believe the significant public interest
benefits of the transaction weigh in favor of a finding that this transaction is in the public
interest, subject to conditions, notwithstanding the current lack of effective competitive
opportunities in France and Germany.

        99.    We also believe that delay or denial of Sprint's petition until effective
competitive opportunities exist in France and Germany would undermine the parties'
proposed transaction and, accordingly, possibly result in the loss of the important public
interest benefits of the transaction.  Moreover, in view of these public interest benefits
arising from the capital investment, we decline to permit only the parties' Joint Venture to
proceed and withhold a finding that this transaction is in the public interest until effective
competitive opportunities exist, as proposed by AT&T.  Given our public interest findings,
we also decline to require Sprint to divest its operations on the France and Germany
routes.  

        100.   We do believe, however, that Sprint must agree to adhere to the strict
conditions described below until full facilities and services competition emerge in both
countries in order to ensure that the parties do not engage in anticompetitive activities.  We
continue to believe, as we stated in the Foreign Carrier Entry Order, that full facilities-based
competition, rather than regulatory conditions, are the most potent safeguard against the
abuse of market power.  Nonetheless, because of the public interest benefits of the
proposed transaction and the commitments to foreign liberalization, we are willing to rely on
strict conditions in this proceeding to protect competition.  Because of the conditions we are
requiring Sprint to accept as part of our public interest finding, we disagree with the AT&T,
BTNA and CWA/IBEW that approval of Sprint's petition will remove incentives for the
French and German Governments to undertake further liberalization.  These conditions
provide important incentives for earlier liberalization than might otherwise be the case.  We
thus do not believe that approval of this transaction will adversely affect NGBT negotiations. 
In any event, we do not believe it would be appropriate to delay our decision until after April
1996, the deadline for an agreement in that forum, given Sprint's legitimate business needs
for a timely decision. 
 
 101. In its proposed Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement, the Justice
Department reaches many of the same conclusions that we do about the potential for
anticompetitive conduct as a result of the proposed transaction.  It finds that, because of
the absence of privatization and the continued existence of de jure monopolies in France and
Germany, additional relief is needed beyond that imposed in the MCI/BT Final Judgment. 
The Justice Department concludes that a series of conditions and requirements, imposed in
two phases, is sufficient to address its concerns over potential anticompetitive conduct,
particularly given the progress made in France and Germany towards a competitive
telecommunications environment and the plans for the implementation of full facilities and
services competition in 1998.  As we note below, a number of the conditions we require
Sprint to accept address concerns similar to those addressed by the Justice Department.  We
have taken into account the provisions of the proposed Final Judgment in designing our
conditions in this Order, and we rely on the effectiveness of those provisions.  The
conditions described below, together with the provisions of the proposed Final Judgment,
fully address our public interest concerns.    
  
      102.  Upon careful consideration of the record in this proceeding, we impose, in
general, five conditions to prevent potential anticompetitive conduct and minimize the unfair
competitive advantages accruing to Sprint from its affiliation with FT and DT.  First, we
find that Sprint is a dominant carrier for the provision of U.S. international services on the
U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes.  Second, we will not allow Sprint to operate
additional circuits on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes until France and Germany
have liberalized two important markets:  alternative infrastructure for already liberalized
services (which include most non-public voice services) and basic switched voice resale. 
Third, we require Sprint to comply with nondiscrimination and reporting requirements. 
Fourth, we find this transaction serves the public interest only if Sprint obtains a written
commitment from FT to lower the accounting rate between the United States and France to
the same range as the U.S.-U.K. and U.S.-Germany accounting rates.  Fifth, if the
anticipated liberalization measures and implementation of effective competitive opportunities
do not occur as planned, we will take further action no later than the Spring of 1998. 
Provided that Sprint complies with the conditions of this ruling, we conclude that we need
not designate for hearing the issue whether the public interest would continue to be served by
Sprint's holding of Title II authorizations and Title III licenses if these investments and the
Joint Venture are consummated. 

      i.    Regulating Sprint as a Dominant Carrier
      
 103. The first condition includes the regulation of Sprint as a dominant carrier for
the provision of U.S. international services on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes
until Sprint can demonstrate that there is no substantial risk of anticompetitive effects in the
U.S. international services market from its affiliation with FT and DT.  We recently
modified our dominant carrier safeguards to require tariff filing on 14-days notice, prior
Section 214 authorization for circuit additions or changes; the filing of quarterly traffic and
revenue reports; and the maintaining of provisioning and maintenance records that cover the
network facilities and services a dominant, foreign-affiliated carrier procures from its foreign
carrier affiliate.  This requirement includes services that a dominant carrier procures on
behalf of joint ventures for the provision of U.S. basic or enhanced services. 

 104.   The Foreign Carrier Entry Order adopts a change in our policy regarding
when we will consider a foreign carrier investment in a U.S. carrier to constitute an
"affiliation" for purposes of determining regulatory treatment of the U.S. carrier.  First, we
have lowered the affiliation threshold control to a greater than 25 percent interest or a
controlling interest at any level.  In addition, we have indicated we may regulate a carrier as
dominant even if an investment is less than 25 percent if there are other contractual
arrangements between the parties which could have a significant impact on competition. 

 105.   In this case, although the combined equity interests of FT and DT are less than
25 percent, we nonetheless find an affiliation in this case for the same reasons we found an
affiliation under our effective competitive opportunities analysis.  In particular, this
transaction involves two of the largest foreign carriers in the world, which control bottleneck
facilities in two of the biggest destination markets for U.S. traffic.  These carriers propose
to invest in the third largest U.S. domestic interexchange and international
telecommunications services carrier as part of their Joint Venture.  The monopoly positions
of FT and DT in their own countries, combined with their 10 percent each equity interest in,
and Joint Venture with, Sprint, provide the incentive and ability for FT and/or DT to engage
in anticompetitive conduct favoring Sprint on these routes.  For example, to the extent FT
and DT can take actions to enhance Sprint's position and Sprint's stock value increases as a
result, FT and DT would themselves profit by the rise in value of their equity investment in
Sprint.

 106.   Moreover, the potential impact on competition in the U.S. basic international
services market warrants dominant carrier treatment to enable us to closely monitor Sprint's
circuits additions, traffic and tariffs for service to these countries, as well as the treatment
afforded FT and DT in the provisioning and maintenance of their basic network services and
facilities.  Accordingly, we find under our new policy regarding affiliation that Sprint cannot
be treated as non-dominant on the France and Germany routes because Sprint's affiliated
carriers, FT and DT, control bottleneck facilities in those countries.  We also find that,
under our current definition of affiliation, Sprint must be regulated as dominant on the
France and Germany routes.  We thus require Sprint to comply with the specific dominant
carrier regulation requirements set forth in paragraph 140 of this Order.  

 107.    The longer tariff filing period for dominant carriers will give us a better
opportunity to detect potential predatory pricing before it occurs.  Similarly, the
requirement that Sprint file quarterly traffic reports and seek prior approval for circuit
additions or changes on the France and Germany routes will better enable us to monitor
traffic flows between Sprint and FT in France and DT in Germany and to remedy promptly
any abuses of foreign market power.  Prior approval for circuit additions or changes is
required of all dominant carriers and, in this case, would enable competitors of Sprint and
the Joint Venture to determine if discrimination is occurring.  We thus agree with ACC and
MFSI that these requirements are necessary to aid detection of, and help deter,
anticompetitive conduct.  By doing so, dominant carrier regulation will protect competition
until France and Germany offer effective competitive opportunities.

 108.   Because FT and DT continue to hold monopolies over key infrastructure, we
believe there is a stronger potential for the anticompetitive use of foreign market power than
in MCI/BT.  Thus, regulation of Sprint as a dominant carrier is necessary on the routes
where it is receiving traffic from FT and DT at least until full infrastructure and services
liberalization and procompetitive regulation emerges in France and Germany.  If effective
competition and effective regulation actually emerge in each country, the potential
anticompetitive effects would be diminished and the types of conditions we imposed on that
transaction may then be adequate to protect competition.  We reserve the right to extend
dominant carrier regulation to additional U.S.-international routes in the event FT, DT and
Sprint enter into a similar alliance with any other "foreign carrier."  We also reserve the
right to extend to additional U.S. international routes dominant carrier regulation and
reporting requirements contained in this Order in the event Sprint has or acquires an
"affiliation" with any "foreign carrier"as those terms are defined in our Foreign Carrier
Entry Order and Section 63.01(r)(1)(i) and (ii) of the Commission's Rules.  

      ii.   Circuit Restrictions

      109.  Under the second condition, we will not allow Sprint to operate additional
circuits on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes until two milestones have been met. 
These milestones are described in detail below.  This condition is necessary to mitigate
Sprint's unfair competitive advantage over other U.S. carriers on the routes where FT and
DT have monopoly market power on the foreign end for the interim period until further
competition emerges in those markets.  Thus, while we will permit Sprint to acquire
additional circuit capacity, we will not allow Sprint to operate any newly-acquired circuits
until Sprint demonstrates that these competitive milestones have been met.  To implement
this condition, we require Sprint to file with the Commission, within 15 days of the effective
date of this Order, a circuit status report on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes,
specifying the number of circuits in which Sprint has an ownership, indefeasible right of use
or leasehold interest, and the number of circuits it is operating on these routes.

      110.   By virtue of its Joint Venture with FT and DT, we find that Sprint has an
advantage over other U.S. carriers that have no possibility of forming a similar alliance with
another French or German carrier.  As we concluded in the Foreign Carrier Entry Order, if
there is no opportunity for participation by other U.S. carriers, then the benefits of providing
international service on an end-to-end basis will flow solely to the monopoly foreign carrier
and its U.S. affiliate.  Our approach to future Section 214 authorization requests by Sprint is
designed to mitigate the unfair competitive advantage accruing to Sprint, FT and DT until
further liberalization occurs.  We also believe such action will provide further incentives for
the French and German Governments and FT and DT to continue to liberalize their
telecommunications markets before 1998.

 111. The first milestone is implementation of alternative infrastructure competition
in France and Germany.  To meet this milestone, France and Germany must permit
infrastructure to be offered by entities other than FT or DT, or their affiliates.  Such
alternative infrastructure must be permitted to carry all currently liberalized services in
France and Germany, including data communications and closed user groups traffic (but not
public switched voice services).  This development opens the way for new facilities-based
carriers for most telecommunications services.  Thus, at least with respect to already
liberalized services, U.S.-affiliated entities may begin to have competitive alternatives to FT
and DT to carry their non-public switched voice traffic in France and Germany.    

 112.  The second milestone is the existence of opportunities to provide basic
switched voice resale, including for the provision of traffic originated or terminated in the
United States.  For purposes of this proceeding, we define liberalized basic switched voice
resale to include public switched voice services which may be offered to the public using
facilities provided by a separate underlying carrier, and may be provided to and from the
United States.  Such resale opportunities must be available to all similarly situated U.S.-
affiliated entities on the same terms and conditions.  To meet this milestone, it is sufficient
that the reseller simply provide its own billing functions, and no switching or other functions
for itself.  In countries such as Chile, Canada, Sweden, and the United Kingdom, allowing
such resale has served to aid the entry of competitors in the marketplace and to exert
competitive pressure on rates, resulting in lower rates to the benefit of customers.  The
French and German Governments each have indicated that FT and DT may enter into
switchless resale arrangements with third parties, as subcontractors, within the current
French and German legislative frameworks.  Thus, it is entirely within the authority of FT
and DT to determine this condition will be satisfied.  Although there is no legal compulsion
in either country for FT or DT to do so, FT and DT can voluntarily enter into such
arrangements, and thus have it within their power to satisfy the basic switched voice resale
milestone.   

 113.   Although the opportunity to provide basic switched voice resale is not as
desirable as full competitive provision of infrastructure, and would still require use of FT's
or DT's underlying facilities, it is nonetheless an important interim step.  The availability of
basic switched voice resale in France and Germany will put U.S. competitors of FT, DT and
the Joint Venture on more equal footing with these entities.  In particular, basic switched
voice resale competition essentially would allow competitors to compete for customers at
every level with FT and DT, including for public switched voice customers.  Competitors of
FT, DT and the Joint Venture would then have the opportunity to market themselves, as only
FT and DT now can, as "full service" providers.  Until basic switched voice resale
opportunities are available, such marketing and service offerings are not possible.  The
competitive availability of alternative infrastructure and basic switched resale also will limit
FT's and DT's ability to leverage their monopoly power unfairly.  These two forms of
competition will start the process of adapting to competition, which should help ease the
implementation of full facilities and services competition, to the benefit of potential
competitors.  This condition also will serve as an important incentive for the effective
implementation of liberalization steps sooner than might otherwise be the case, thus
minimizing the competitive harm to other U.S. carriers that wish, but are not currently
permitted, to participate in the French and German markets.  

 114.   This condition only affects Sprint's operation of additional capacity it is
authorized to acquire subsequent to the consummation of the transaction on the France and
Germany routes; it will not prevent Sprint from acquiring additional capacity as it becomes
available or is needed to meet its expected long term capacity needs.  Business realities may
mean that Sprint will be required to invest now in capacity on a submarine cable, for
example, that is not yet operational.  As a dominant carrier, Sprint will be required to obtain
prior Section 214 authority to acquire and operate any additional circuits.  Because of the
particular circumstances of this transaction, however, we will consider granting Sprint
Section 214 authority only to acquire, not operate, capacity on either the France or Germany
routes until the two competitive milestones are reached.  Thus, while we will permit Sprint
to acquire capacity on these routes, we will not allow Sprint to operate any such capacity
acquired after the consummation of the transaction until Sprint can demonstrate that the
competitive milestones have been reached.  
 
 115.   Based on our review of Sprint's confidential circuit status reports, published
information on Sprint's capacity ownership on TAT-12/13 and other the transatlantic cables,
and Sprint's average growth rate, we are confident that this remedy will not adversely impact
Sprint's short term ability to respond to marketplace demands.   Moreover, this restriction
does not affect Sprint's ability to provide service on these routes on a resale basis.  We
emphasize that we expect this condition to be short-term.  Both FT and DT have the ability
to satisfy the resale milestone by introducing resale at any time.  Moreover, the French and
German Governments have committed both to the E.U. and U.S. authorities to permit
alternative infrastructure competition by July 1996.  There is no reason, then, that this circuit
restriction should not be able to be lifted in six months time.  Upon Sprint's demonstration to
the Commission that these two milestones have been met, the Commission will promptly lift
this restriction from all previously conditioned Section 214 authorizations.

 iii.   Nondiscrimination and Reporting Requirements

 116.   The third condition consists of nondiscrimination and reporting requirements
based on longstanding procompetitive rules and policies of this Commission.  These
requirements, similar to those imposed in the MCI/BT proceeding, are designed to prevent
Sprint from accepting the benefits of any anticompetitive use of market power by FT or DT. 
Moreover, Sprint has volunteered to accept these requirements.  These requirements will
remain in place indefinitely unless expressly removed by Commission order.  Sprint's failure
to comply with these requirements may result in the imposition of fines or forfeitures or a
revocation of one or more of its licenses.

 117.   We impose a number of nondiscrimination and reporting requirements.  First, 
Sprint is prohibited from agreeing to accept, directly or indirectly, any special concessions
from any foreign carrier or administration with respect to traffic or revenue flows between
the United States and any foreign country.  This requirement reflects a nondiscrimination
safeguard adopted in the Foreign Carrier Entry Order.  We also note that numerous cable
landing licenses and Section 214 authorizations held by Sprint contain similar prohibitions
against accepting "exclusive arrangements" from any foreign carrier or administration.

 118.   Second, in keeping with the requirement not to accept "special concessions"
directly or indirectly from FT or DT, Sprint shall obtain a written commitment from FT and
DT not to offer or provide any special concessions to Sprint or the Joint Venture in FT's and
DT's provision of basic telecommunications services or facilities.  A copy of this written
commitment must be filed with the Commission 15 days prior to consummation of this
transaction.

 119. Third, Sprint shall file with the Commission quarterly reports summarizing its
records on the provisioning and maintenance of facilities and services by FT and DT to
Sprint, including, but not limited to, correspondent or other basic services or facilities
procured on behalf of customers of Joint Venture offerings, in France and Germany. 
These reports shall include information about any distribution or interconnection
arrangements, including pricing, technical specifications, functional capabilities and other
quality or operational characteristics, such as provisioning and maintenance times.  Although
we do not require such reports of other dominant carriers in our Foreign Carrier Entry
Order, we believe that such reports are necessary in this case to enable competitors and
users to determine if discrimination is occurring because of the large traffic flows between
the United States and France and Germany and the resulting potential significant impact of
anticompetitive conduct on the U.S. telecommunications market.  To provide additional
monitoring, we also require Sprint to file with the Commission, within 15 days of the
effective date of this Order, a circuit status report on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany
routes, specifying the number of circuits.  
 
 120.   These requirements are designed to ensure that Sprint, the Joint Venture, FT
and DT do not use their new relationship, in combination with FT's and DT's foreign market
power, to favor each other at the expense of competitors and competition generally.  We
have described in detail above how FT and DT will have both the ability, through their
foreign monopolies, and the incentive, as a result of their investments in Sprint and the Joint
Venture, to engage in such conduct.  With respect to concerns that FT, DT and Sprint could
use their relationship to manipulate traffic streams or accounting rates, we reiterate that
existing Commission policy with respect to these matters effectively limits the parties' ability
to engage in such anticompetitive conduct.  As a U.S. carrier, Sprint must:  (1) not agree to
accept more than its proportionate share of return traffic from its foreign correspondent;
(2) settle its accounts in accordance with the nondiscriminatory accounting rates it is required
to file with this Commission; (3) file copies of all contracts, agreements and arrangements
that relate to the routing of traffic (including transiting traffic) and settlement of accounts;
and (4) not accept any changes in its accounting rates that are not made available to all other
competing U.S. carriers on a nondiscriminatory basis.  Moreover, pursuant to the "no special
concessions" requirement, Sprint is precluded from bargaining for, or accepting, any
preferential changes in the current method used by FT or DT to allocate return traffic among
U.S. carriers.  

 121.   Sprint's "no special concessions" obligation also would preclude Sprint from
accepting from FT or DT, or from any other foreign carrier or administration, preferential or
exclusive operating agreements or marketing arrangements for the provision of basic
telecommunications services, including the introduction and provision of new basic
services.  This obligation would preclude Sprint from offering a new correspondent or
other basic service, or concluding an operating agreement for such a new service, with either
FT or DT unless FT or DT offer to provide the service or operating agreement on the same
terms and conditions to similarly situated U.S. carriers, a concern raised by AT&T. 
Similarly, Sprint would be precluded from accepting from FT or DT any distribution or
interconnection arrangements, including pricing, technical specifications, functional
capabilities, or other quality and operational characteristics, such as provisioning and
maintenance times, at rates or on terms and conditions that are not available on a
nondiscriminatory basis to all competing U.S. carriers.  In these examples, the reports to be
filed by Sprint will enhance the Commission's ability to monitor Sprint's compliance with its
obligation to accept no special concessions from FT or DT.    

 122.   Sprint also would be prohibited from agreeing to accept any arrangement with
FT or DT for the joint handling of basic traffic originating or terminating in third countries
on terms and conditions not available on a nondiscriminatory basis to all competing U.S.
carriers.     
 123. Our "no special concessions" requirement would prohibit Sprint from
accepting directly from FT or DT, or indirectly, through the Joint Venture, prior to public
disclosure, any information about FT's or DT's basic network services that affects either the
provision of basic or enhanced services or interconnection to the French or German public
switched network by U.S. carriers or their U.S. customers.  In addition, Sprint would be
precluded from accepting French or German telephone customer information (including
names and addresses) from FT or DT unless such information also is available to other U.S.
competitors. 
 124.   As a further example, Sprint would be prohibited from accepting, either
directly or indirectly, through the Joint Venture or from FT or DT, any proprietary or
confidential information obtained by FT or DT from competing U.S. carriers in the course of
regular business activities with such U.S. carriers, unless specific permission has been
obtained in writing from the U.S. carrier involved.  Such information might relate to the
provision of interconnection or other necessary services, correspondent relationships, or
negotiations of operating agreements, including accounting rates.  

 125.   In addition, we agree with AT&T that the "steering" of customers by the Joint
Venture partners to the Joint Venture violates the "no special concessions" requirement to the
extent a basic service customer is being "steered" to a particular U.S. carrier.  Under the
terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, each partner is required to use commercially
reasonable efforts to persuade its customers to use the Joint Venture's services.  Thus, for
example, if an FT customer in France requests from FT a basic, private line service between
France and the United States, FT is required to attempt to persuade the customer to use
Sprint, the Joint Venture partner serving the United States, for the U.S. end.  Although the
customer may ultimately choose another U.S. carrier anyway, this arrangement affects traffic
flows, and requires foreign carriers (FT and DT) to attempt to persuade customers to use one
particular U.S. carrier (Sprint) for the provision of basic services.  The same arrangement is
not available to other U.S. carriers, and thus, by its terms, such "steering" would be an
impermissible special concession under Section 63.14 of our Rules.  

 126.   Our requirement that Sprint maintain complete records and provide quarterly
reports on the provisioning and maintenance of facilities and services provided by FT and
DT to Sprint specifically includes any services or facilities procured on behalf of customers
of Joint Venture offerings in France and Germany.  This requirement will enhance our ability
to monitor Sprint's compliance with our "no special concessions" requirement. We may
revisit the need for these reporting requirements when France and Germany are fully
liberalized.  But until effective competition exists in these countries, we believe that FT's and
DT's market power merits this additional measure.  

 127.   We recognize the concerns in the record raised by FT's and DT's participation
in the Joint Venture, when combined with their 20 percent stake in Sprint.  These factors
may, for example, give FT and DT an incentive to provide Sprint preferential access to their
basic services networks.  This potential discrimination could take various direct or indirect
forms, including preferential pricing or treatment in the provision and maintenance of both
international half-circuits and of local exchange services or advance disclosure of technical
specifications.  We find that our concerns about the potential leveraging of foreign market
power in basic service offerings to gain an advantage in the global seamless service market
are satisfactorily addressed at this time by the "no special concessions" requirement and
recordkeeping and reporting requirements we have imposed on Sprint. 

 128.   We also require Sprint to file progress reports detailing the status of the
telecommunications markets and regulatory regimes in France and Germany.  We believe
these reports will assist us in determining whether progress is being made in liberalizing
these markets.  In the event appropriate progress is not being made, we may need to consider
additional safeguards to protect against anticompetitive conduct.

 129.   As we noted above, France and Germany have committed to taking certain
steps to implement effective competitive opportunities in their telecommunications markets by
January 1, 1998.  We direct Sprint to provide the Commission with the following
information regarding French and German regulatory developments:  the text of any laws,
resolutions, regulations and court decisions relevant to the implementation of
telecommunications services and facilities competition, and any descriptive information
regarding enforcement of and compliance with these provisions.  This descriptive information
should address how France and Germany are progressing in meeting the specific effective
competitive opportunities criteria.  We also require Sprint to report on the status of the
ownership of FT and DT.  These reports should be filed no later than July 31 of each year
(beginning in 1996) until this Commission determines that there are effective competitive
opportunities in France and Germany.  We will include these reports in the public record in
this proceeding, which will remain open until we find effective competitive opportunities
exist in both France and Germany.  In 1998, this report must be filed by March 31, as
described below.

 130.   Finally, to ensure if the alien ownership level in Sprint does not exceed 28
percent, we require Sprint to conduct periodic surveys of their public shareholders.  We also
require Sprint to obtain prior Commission approval before increasing FT's or DT's
ownership or voting interest in Sprint.  In addition, Sprint must file any substantive
amendments or modifications to:  (1) the Investment Agreement; (2) the Stockholders'
Agreement; (3) the Joint Venture Agreement (4) the Certificate of Amendment to Sprint's
Articles of Incorporation; (5) the Proposed Amendments to Sprint's Bylaws; and (6) the
Standstill Agreement with the Commission within 30 days of execution.  We also require
Sprint to file with the Secretary of this Commission, within 30 days of the effective of this
Order or prior to the consummation of this transaction, whichever is sooner, a letter
accepting the terms and conditions of this Commission ruling.

 iv.      Accounting Rate Condition

 131.   For the reasons described in paragraph 92 above, we find that this transaction
serves the public interest only if Sprint obtains a written commitment from FT to lower the
accounting rate between the United States and France to the same range as the U.S.-U.K.
and U.S.-Germany accounting rates.  The written commitment should indicate that FT will
implement these reductions in the near future and in no event later than two years from the
adoption date of this Order.  A copy of the written commitment shall be filed with the
Commission 15 days prior to consummation of the transaction.  The filing of this
commitment is a precondition to our finding that this transaction serves the public interest.    
 

 v.     Possible Additional Conditions or Sanctions

 132.   This grant is based in large part upon commitments made by the French and
German Governments; if full liberalization is not implemented as planned, we will be
required to take further action.  We thus require Sprint to report by March 31, 1998 on the
progress France and Germany have made in meeting their liberalization commitments and,
specifically, whether France and Germany afford effective competitive opportunities at that
time.  We will place Sprint's report on public notice and seek comment.  If the record
demonstrates there are serious questions about whether the anticipated measures have been
taken, and effective competitive opportunities still are not available, we will designate for
hearing the issue of whether the public interest continues to be served by Sprint's holding of
Section 214 facilities authorizations on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes and, if
necessary, Sprint's holding of Section 214 resale authorizations on these routes. 

 133.   Finally, the terms of this decision are subject to any obligations that might
arise as a result of the current negotiations in the NGBT under the auspices of the World
Trade Organization.  We will adjust the terms of this Order as necessary to comply with any
such commitments.  

                              V.  Conclusion

 134.   After careful consideration of the arguments made by all parties, we conclude
that, on balance, the public interest will be served by the grant of this declaratory ruling
subject to our prescribed conditions.  We find that France and Germany do not currently
offer effective competitive opportunities to U.S. carriers and that FT and DT have the
incentive and ability to favor Sprint over other U.S. carriers.  Our analysis reveals
significant competitive concerns arising from FT's and DT's monopoly positions in those
countries.  Our confidence that the conditions we have placed on this transaction are
sufficient to control anticompetitive conduct and mitigate potential anticompetitive effects in
the U.S. telecommunications market in the short term is due in large measure to the
commitments the French and German Governments have made to implementing wide-ranging
liberalization schemes.  
 
 135.   The procompetitive impact of the equity investment on the U.S.
telecommunications market is another strong public interest factor that weighs in favor of
approving the transaction.  FT's and DT's infusion of $3.5-4.2 billion into Sprint will serve
the public interest in a number of ways.  In the United States, the transaction will make
Sprint a stronger, more competitive participant in the domestic interexchange, terrestrial
CMRS, and international services markets.  It also will allow Sprint to expand and improve
its network services and product offerings and to expand the range of communications
services it offers to the American public.  U.S. consumers should have increased access to
new and existing telecommunications services and lower prices, which will help stimulate
economic growth.  In the global seamless services market, the transaction will create a
significant new competitor.  

 136.   We encourage further market-opening steps in France and Germany before
1998.  We also urge the implementation of full facilities and services competition in such a
way that affords effective competitive opportunities.  In the interim, we believe the
conditions we impose will safeguard against anticompetitive behavior and other potential
anticompetitive effects from the strategic investment by FT and DT.  They also will help
mitigate Sprint's unfair competitive advantage over other U.S. carriers serving France and
Germany.  

 137.   We therefore grant Sprint's request for a ruling that 10 percent equity
investments each, for a total of 20 percent, by FT and DT do not result in a transfer of
control of Sprint to FT and DT.  Although FT and DT each may acquire a certain degree of
influence in Sprint's corporate decision-making process, we conclude this influence would
not rise to a level that constitutes control under Section 310(d).  We also grant Sprint's
requests for a ruling that foreign ownership in Sprint of up to 28 percent, as set forth in its
submissions, is not inconsistent with Section 310(b)(4) of the Act, and that the proposed
transaction is not otherwise inconsistent with the public interest, so long as Sprint adheres to
the conditions imposed above.  

                           VI.  Ordering Clauses
 
 138. Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that the petitioners' request for a declaratory
ruling, I-S-P-95-002, is GRANTED.  Prior approval pursuant to Section 310(d) of the Act is
not required before the FT and DT investments in Sprint can occur because the transaction
does not involve a transfer of control.  Furthermore, the level of up to 28 percent foreign
ownership in Sprint, as described, is not inconsistent with the public interest under Section
310(b)(4) of the Act if Sprint complies with the conditions and requirements set forth in this
Order.

 139. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 218 of the Act, 47
U.S.C.  218, Sprint shall report, within 30 days of the effective date of this Order, the
destination markets other than France and Germany in which FT or DT controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control of a foreign carrier.  These reports shall also
specify whether these foreign carriers have market power, as defined in paragraph 40 of this
Order.
 
 140. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Sprint shall be regulated as a dominant
carrier, pursuant to Section 214 of the Act, 47 U.S.C.  214, and Section 63.10 of the
Commission's Rules, 47 C.F.R.  63.10, on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes. 
Sprint must therefore comply with the following requirements until further Order by the
Commission:

      A.    Sprint shall file tariff provisions pursuant to Section 203 of the
Communications Act, 47 U.S.C.  203, and Part 61 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.
Part 61, for the provision of U.S. basic international services between the United States and
France and the United States and Germany.  Absent contrary Commission action, the tariffs
will become effective 14 days after filing;

      B.    Sprint shall seek, pursuant to Section 63.01 of the Commission's rules,
47 C.F.R.  63.01, additional authorization under Section 214 of the Communications Act ,
47 U.S.C.  214, before adding or discontinuing circuits between the United States and
France and the United States and Germany;

      C.    Sprint shall file, pursuant to Section 218 of the Act, 47 U.S.C.  218,
quarterly reports of revenue, number of messages and number of minutes of both originating
and terminating traffic (each reported separately and not aggregated) for the U.S.-France and
U.S.-Germany routes within 90 days from the end of each calendar quarter; and

      D.    Sprint shall, pursuant to Section 218 of the Act, 47 U.S.C.  218,
maintain complete records on the provisioning and maintenance of network facilities and
services it procures from FT or DT, including, but not limited to, those it procures on behalf
of customers of Joint Venture offerings.

 141. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 214 of the Act, 47
U.S.C.  214, the Commission will not allow Sprint to operate additional circuits on the
U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes to provide facilities-based services until the
Commission finds that France and Germany: 

      A.    Permit the provision of alternative infrastructure to be used to provide 
already liberalized services, in which U.S.-affiliated entities are permitted to participate; and

      B.    Permit the provision of basic switched voice resale, including U.S.-
originated and -terminated international public switched voice services.  Such resale
opportunities must be available to all similarly situated U.S.-affiliated entities on the same
terms and conditions.  

This condition may be removed on a route-by-route basis as Sprint demonstrates that a
country has liberalized its telecommunications markets in the manner specified in (A) and (B)
above.

 142. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 218 of the Act, Sprint
shall file with the Commission, within 15 days of the effective date of this Order, a circuit
status report on the U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany routes, specifying the number of circuits
in which Sprint has an ownership, indefeasible right of use, or leasehold interest, and the
number of circuits it is operating on these routes.

 143. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 63.14 of the
Commission's Rules, 47 C.F.R.  63.14, Sprint is prohibited from agreeing to accept special
concession directly or indirectly from any foreign carrier or administration with respect to
traffic or revenue flows between the United States and any foreign country, or agreeing to
enter into such arrangements in the future.

 144. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Sprint, pursuant to our requirement to
accept no special concessions directly or indirectly from FT or DT, shall obtain a written
commitment from FT and DT not to offer or provide any special concessions to Sprint or the
Joint Venture, relating to the provision of basic services or facilities.  A copy of such written
agreement shall be filed with this Commission 15 days prior to the consummation of this
transaction.

 145. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 218 of the Act, Sprint
shall file with the Commission quarterly reports summarizing its records on the provisioning
and maintenance of facilities and services by FT and DT to Sprint, including, but not limited
to, correspondent or other basic services or facilities procured on behalf of customers of
Joint Venture offerings, in France and Germany.  These reports shall include information
about any distribution or interconnection arrangements, including pricing, technical
specifications, functional capabilities and other quality or operational characteristics, such as
provisioning and maintenance times.

 146. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 218 of the Act, Sprint
shall file its circuit status reports for U.S.-France and U.S.-Germany circuits on a monthly
basis and shall make such reports publicly available on a quarterly basis.

 147. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 218 of the Act, and
Section 43.51 of the Commission's Rules, 47 C.F.R.  43.51, Sprint shall file with the
Commission copies of all contracts, agreements, and arrangements with FT or DT that relate
to the routing of traffic (including transiting traffic) and settlement of accounts on the U.S.-
France and U.S.-Germany routes.

 148. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, pursuant to Section 218 of the Act, 47 U.S.C.
 218, Sprint shall obtain prior Commission approval before increasing FT's or DT's
ownership or voting interest in Sprint.

 149. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 310 of the Act, Sprint
shall conduct periodic surveys of its public shareholders to ensure continuing compliance
with the maximum level of foreign ownership in Sprint found not to be inconsistent with the
public interest pursuant to Section 310(b)(4) of the Act.

 150. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to our authority under Section 218
of the Act, 47 U.S.C.  218, Sprint shall file any and all substantive amendments or
modifications to:  (1) the Investment Agreement; (2) the Stockholders' Agreement; (3) the
Joint Venture Agreement; (4) the Certificate of Amendment to Sprint's Articles of
Incorporation; (5) the Proposed Amendments to Sprint's Bylaws; and (6) the Standstill
Agreement with the Commission within 30 days of execution.

 151. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Sprint shall obtain a written commitment
from FT to lower the accounting rate between the United States and France to the same
range as the U.S.-U.K. and U.S.-Germany accounting rates.  The written commitment
should indicate that FT will implement these reductions in the near future and in no event
later than two years from the effective date of this Order.  A copy of the written commitment
shall be filed with the Commission 15 days prior to the consummation of the transaction.  

 152. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Section 218 of the Act, 47
U.S.C.  218, Sprint shall file progress reports on liberalization developments in France and
Germany no later than July 31 of each year, beginning in 1996.  The report provided in 1998
shall be filed no later than March 31.  These reports shall contain the information specified
in paragraph 129 of this Order.

 153. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that all references to Sprint, FT, DT and the
Joint Venture in this Order shall also refer to their respective officers, directors and
employees, as well as to any affiliated companies and their officers, directors and employees.

 154. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Sprint shall file with the Secretary of this
Commission, within 30 days of the effective date of this Order or prior to the consummation
of this transaction, whichever is sooner, a letter accepting the terms and conditions of this
Commission ruling.

      155.  This Order is effective the day after all rules, regulations and policies adopted
in the Foreign Carrier Entry Order become effective.  Petitions for reconsideration under
Section 1.106 of the Commission's Rules may be filed within 30 days of the date of public
notice of this Order (see Section 1.4(b)(2)).

      FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION



      William F. Caton
      Acting Secretary
