                            Before the
                FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
                      Washington, D.C. 20554

In the Matter of                        )
                                   )
AT&T Corp., British Telecommunications, plc, )
VLT Co. L.L.C., Violet License Co. LLC, and  )
TNV [Bahamas] Limited Applications      )    IB Docket No. 98-212
For Grant of Section 214 Authority, Modification  )    SES-ASG-19981110-01654 (30)
of Authorizations and Assignment of Licenses in   )    SES-ASG-19981110-01655 (2)
Connection With the Proposed Joint Venture Between        )
AT&T Corp.and British Telecommunications, plc     )

                   MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER

     Adopted:  October 22, 1999                        Released:  October 29, 1999 

By the Commission:  Commissioner Furchtgott-Roth issuing a separate statement.

                        Table of Contents
                                                        Paragraph
   I.  Introduction   . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1

   II. Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
       A.  The applicants  . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
       B.  The merger transaction and the application to transfer licenses . . . . . .                   8

   III.   Public Interest Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
       A.  Legal standards    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
       B.  Analytical framework for assessing competitive effects . . . . . . . . . . .                  16

   IV.    Public Interest Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
       A.  Global seamless services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      22
          1.  Definition of global seamless services    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            23
          2.  Significant providers of global seamless services   . . . . . . . . . . . .                29
          3.  Competitive analysis   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       40
       B. U.S.-U.K. route     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      62
       C. Third country routes     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71   
       D. Transit market      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                73
       E. Public interest benefits    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    76
       F. National security issues   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     77

   V.  Competitive Safeguards      .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          81
       A. Dominant carrier regulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        82
       B. No Special Concessions rule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          92
       C. Equal access in the United Kingdom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             96
       D. Unbundling the local loop in the United Kingdom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  99
       
   VI. Miscellaneous Issues  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .    100
       A. U.S. submarine cable stations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        100
       B. AT&T's current global alliances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          101

   VII.   Conclusion      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  102

   VIII.  Ordering Clauses    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .       103


   Appendix A:  List of commenters

   Appendix B:  Agreement on national security issues 

                         I.  INTRODUCTION

     1.   AT&T Corp. (AT&T), British Telecommunications (BT), VLT Co. L.L.C. (VLT),
TNV [Bahamas] Limited (TLTD), and Violet License Co. LLC (License Co.), collectively
"AT&T/BT," have applied for the Commission's consent, under Sections 214 and 310(d) of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and the Submarine Cable Landing Act, to obtain or
transfer certain licenses and authorizations in connection with the proposed joint venture (JV)
between AT&T and BT to provide international telecommunications services.
     
     2.   Because we find that AT&T/BT have demonstrated that the joint venture is in the
public interest, we approve, subject to certain conditions: (a) the grant of Section 214 authority to
VLT and TLTD to provide facilities-based and resold international common carrier services; (b)
the assignment to VLT of submarine cable licenses held by AT&T or its subsidiaries; (c) the
assignment to License Co. of certain earth station licenses held by AT&T or its subsidiaries, and
(d) the modification of certain Section 214 authorizations held by AT&T or its subsidiaries.

                         II.  BACKGROUND

     A.   The Applicants

     3.   AT&T, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware, is the largest long-
distance and international telecommunications services carrier in the United States.  It provides
voice and data communications services to residential, business, and government customers, and
provides service to over 200 countries and territories around the world.  AT&T holds Section 214
authorizations and certificates to provide international services and maintain ownership interests
in international cable facilities.  AT&T also holds radio licenses for earth stations used to provide
international services.

     4.   BT, a company organized under the laws of England and Wales, is the largest
telecommunications operator in the United Kingdom, providing local, long-distance, and
international telecommunications services and telecommunications equipment to customers'
premises.  BT also offers a range of other telecommunications services, including private line
circuits, mobile telecommunications services, and paging services.  BT provides service to over
200 countries around the world.  BT's wholly-owned affiliate, BT North America, Inc. (BTNA),
is authorized pursuant to Section 214 to provide certain U.S. international telecommunications
services. 

     5.   VLT, a Delaware limited liability corporation, is a subsidiary of a holding
company based in the Netherlands that will be equally owned by AT&T and BT.  AT&T
proposes to assign to VLT its ownership interests in cable landing stations in the United States
and international submarine cable facilities within the U.S. territorial limits.  VLT seeks new
Section 214 authorization to provide facilities-based and resold international basic switched,
private line, data, television, and business services.  

     6.   TLTD, a Bahamas-based corporation, is also a subsidiary of a holding company
based in the Netherlands that will be equally owned by AT&T and BT.  AT&T proposes to
assign to TLTD its ownership interests in international submarine cable facilities outside the U.S.
territorial limits.  TLTD's assets will also include BT's ownership interests in international
submarine cable facilities outside the U.K. territorial limits and AT&T's and BT's operating
agreements to provide international telecommunications services to various countries.  TLTD
seeks new Section 214 authorization to provide facilities-based and resold international basic
switched, private line, data, television, and business services.
 
     7.   License Co., a Delaware limited liability corporation, will be a wholly-owned
subsidiary of VLT.  AT&T proposes to assign to License Co. its earth station licenses. 
     
     B.   The Application 

     8.   The proposed joint venture.  On November 10, 1998, AT&T/BT filed an
application seeking the Commission's consent for the grant, transfer, and modification of certain
licenses and authorizations in connection with the proposed joint venture between AT&T and BT
to provide international telecommunications services.  Under the proposed joint venture, AT&T
will continue to offer international services to its customers on a common carrier basis pursuant
to its Section 214 authorization.  However, AT&T will no longer own any international facilities. 
Rather, the JV will provision to AT&T the underlying international services components, except
for backhaul facilities and domestic switching services.  The JV will also provide wholesale, or
carriers' carrier, services to international service providers on a common carrier basis.  In
addition, the JV will develop and offer new services to meet the telecommunications needs of
multinational corporations (MNCs).  AT&T and BT also propose to make substantial capital
investments to enable the JV to replace AT&T's and BT's existing circuit-switched international
facilities with a state-of-the-art Internet Protocol-based (IP) global network.  AT&T and BT state
that the proposed IP network will have a global architecture, based on open standards, to ensure
that it is fully compatible with the networks of AT&T, BT, and foreign carriers that will operate
in conjunction with the JV outside the United States and United Kingdom.

     9.   AT&T/BT assert that the JV will promote the public interest by: (a) promoting
competition in the market for the provision of "global seamless services" to MNCs; (b)
promoting competition in the provision of packet-switched international services by enabling
AT&T and BT to accelerate the design, construction, and deployment of an advanced IP
network; and (c) reducing settlement rates and hastening the demise of the traditional
correspondent system through effective exploitation of efficient arrangements for the routing of
traffic, such as hubbing and reorigination.  

     10.  Regulatory action.  In addition to the Commission, the Department of Justice
(DOJ), Oftel (the U.K. telecommunications regulator), and the European Commission (EC) also
reviewed this proposed joint venture.  On March 30, 1999, the EC cleared the joint venture
subject to the condition that AT&T sell off certain cable assets, and adopt structural separation
safeguards between AT&T and other cable assets, in the United Kingdom.  The EC found that
AT&T/BT would have a combined market share of 30-50 percent of the global
telecommunications services market, 18 percent of international bilateral carrier services traffic,
and 50 percent of the traffic and 20 percent of the capacity on the U.S.-U.K. route.  The EC
concluded that there were several actual and potential competitors in all the markets and
"plentiful additional capacity" at declining prices.  Thus, the EC determined that the proposed
joint venture would not have an anticompetitive effect.  The EC authorized the JV to self-
correspond on the U.S.-U.K. route.   
     
     11.  Oftel states that it has considered the effect of the joint venture on the current
regulatory regime for international services.  On June 1, 1999, Oftel issued a proposed license for
the joint venture in which Oftel proposes to transpose a number of special conditions currently
applied to BT to the joint venture.  The specific conditions relate to BT's obligations to provide
universal service, interconnection, non-discriminatory treatment, and to maintain accounting
separations.  
          
     12.  On June 28, 1999, after conducting a review pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino
amendment to the Clayton Act, DOJ concluded that the proposed joint venture may proceed. 
In this Order, we independently review the proposed joint venture based on our statutory public
interest standard, as described below.

                 III.  PUBLIC INTEREST FRAMEWORK

     A.   Legal Standards

     13.  Pursuant to Sections 214(a) and 310(d) of the Communications Act (the Act), the
Commission must determine whether AT&T/BT has demonstrated that granting, amending, or
transferring control of the requested licenses and authorizations in connection with the proposed
joint venture between AT&T and BT would serve the "public interest."  More specifically,
under Section 214(a) of the Act, the Commission must find that the "present or future public
convenience and necessity require or will require" approving AT&T/BTs' applications to modify
AT&T's Section 214 authorization to allow it to transfer ownership of certain facilities to VLT
and TLTD and to authorize VLT and TLTD to operate the acquired telecommunications lines. 
Under Section 310(d) of the Act, the Commission must determine that the proposed transfer of
earth station licenses "serves the public interest, convenience, and necessity" before it can
approve the transaction.      
     
     14.  The public interest standard of Sections 214(a) and 310(d) of the Act is a flexible
one that encompasses the "broad aims of the Communications Act."  These broad aims include,
among other things, implementing Congress's "pro-competitive, de-regulatory national policy
framework designed to . . . open[] all telecommunications markets to competition" and
"accelerat[ing] rapidly private sector deployment of advanced telecommunications and
information technologies and services."  The public interest analysis may also consider whether
the proposed transaction will affect the quality of telecommunications services provided to
consumers or will result in the provision of new or additional services to consumers.  In
evaluating whether the proposed transaction furthers the aims of the Act, the Commission may
consider the trends within, and needs of, the telecommunications industry, the factors that
influenced Congress to enact specific provisions of the Act, and the nature, complexity, and
rapidity of change in the telecommunications industry.  

     15.  The statutory standard that the Commission must apply in this case requires a
balancing of the potential public interest harms against the potential public interest benefits, and
AT&T/BT bear the burden of proof of showing that the benefits outweigh the harms.  Our
public interest analysis is not limited by traditional antitrust principles.  In the
telecommunications industry for which we have statutory responsibility, as in most others,
competition is shaped not only by antitrust rules but by the regulatory policies that govern
interaction of firms inside the industries.  An antitrust analysis -- such as that undertaken by the
Department of Justice in this case -- focusses solely on whether a proposed merger will harm
competition.  Our public interest analysis also encompasses the broad aims of the
Communications Act.  To apply our public interest test, then, we must determine whether the
proposed transaction violates our rules, or would otherwise frustrate our implementation or
enforcement of the Communications Act and federal communications policy.  That policy is, of
course, shaped by Congress and deeply rooted in a preference for competitive processes and
outcomes.  Ultimately, we must determine whether AT&T/BT has demonstrated that the
proposed transaction, on balance, serves the public interest, considering both its competitive
effects and other public interest benefits and harms.  Where necessary, the Commission may
attach conditions to the approval of a transfer of licenses in order to ensure that the public
interest is served by the transaction.  Section 214(c) of the Act also authorizes the Commission to
attach to the certificate "such terms and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and
necessity may require."  Similarly, Section 303(r) of the Act authorizes the Commission to
prescribe such restrictions or conditions, not inconsistent with law, as may be necessary to carry
out the provisions of the Act.  In addition, the Submarine Cable Landing Act and Executive
Order No. 10530 authorize the Commission to grant, withhold, or condition cable landing
licenses, inter alia, "upon such terms as shall be necessary to assure just and reasonable rates and
service in the operation and use of cables so licensed."  In assessing the potential public interest
effects of this transaction between AT&T and BT, we limit our analysis to those issues that have
been raised by the parties to the proceeding and those additional issues that may significantly
affect the public interest.  

     B.   Analytical Framework for Assessing Competitive Effects

     16.  Although the proposed transaction before us is a joint venture and not a merger,
we generally follow the analytical framework adopted by the Commission in the Bell
Atlantic/NYNEX Order and the BT/MCI Order in conducting our public interest analysis of the
competitive effects of the proposed joint venture.  As the Commission noted in the BT/MCI
Order, this analytical framework is based not only on prior Commission analyses of market
power, but is also embodied in the antitrust laws, including the DOJ and Federal Trade
Commission 1992 Horizontal Merger Guidelines and the April 8, 1997 revisions of those
guidelines.

     17.  Consistent with the 1992 Horizontal Merger Guidelines, the Commission, as part
of  its competitive effects analysis, seeks to define the relevant markets and those firms
participating in those markets.  The Commission then analyzes whether the proposed merger
will increase the likelihood that firms participating in those markets could exercise market power
through either unilateral or coordinated anticompetitive behavior.  Finally, if the Commission
concludes that the merger will increase the potential for the exercise of market power (through
either unilateral or coordinated activity), the Commission attempts to determine if entry of new
firms or construction of new capacity by existing firms in response to price increases will
constrain any attempted exercise of market power.

     18.  The 1992 Horizontal Merger Guidelines suggest that, in assessing whether a
merger involving firms currently competing in a market will result in anticompetitive effects,
market shares should be assigned to each firm currently participating in the market.  Then the
pre-merger and post-merger levels of concentration should be calculated, using the Herfindahl-
Hirschman Index (HHI).  The merger guidelines also explicitly recognize, however, that "recent
or ongoing changes in the market may indicate that the current market share of a particular firm
either understates or overstates the firm's future competitive significance."  

     19.  The Commission also seeks to determine if market entry is unconstrained so that
an attempted exercise of market power can be prevented, i.e., if rivals and new entrants have the
capabilities and incentives to expand output in response to any anticompetitive practices by the
merging entities.  

     20.  Finally, we must balance against the potential public interest harms the extent to
which the joint venture may enhance efficiency.  As we noted in the MCI WorldCom Order, the
Commission defined these efficiency benefits as "the pro-competitive benefits of a merger that
improve market performance," thereby benefiting consumers through, for example, "lower
prices, improved quality, enhanced service or new products."  In addition, we explained that
only merger-specific efficiencies, i.e., those that would not occur but for the merger or are
unlikely to be achieved through less competitively-harmful means than the merger, are relevant
to the public interest analysis.  
          
         IV.  ANALYSIS OF POTENTIAL PUBLIC INTEREST HARMS

     21.  We consider in this section the competitive effects of the proposed joint venture in
the global seamless services market, the U.S.-U.K route, third country routes, and in the transit
market.  We also analyze the possible public interest benefits, including potential efficiencies,
and national security concerns.

     A.   Global Seamless Services 
      
     22.  Based on our review of the evidence, we find it is unlikely that the proposed joint
venture will have an anticompetitive effect in the market for global seamless services.  We find
that the global seamless services market has several significant participants, including large
global alliances and numerous smaller carriers with a global or regional presence that have
emerged as potentially significant rivals.  We find that, given the changing alliances among
carriers, the proposed joint venture will not eliminate a significant competitor.  We also find that,
although the proposed joint venture may increase concentration in the global seamless services
market, the JV will not be able to exercise market power because there are no barriers to entry in
this market.  

     1.   Definition of Global Seamless Services

     23.  In 1996, the Commission defined global seamless services as: 

                    a combination of voice, data, video, and other telecommunications
          services that are offered by a single source over an integrated international
          network of owned or leased facilities, and that have the same quality,
          characteristics, features and capabilities wherever they are provided.

     24.  The Commission noted that end-to-end seamless service offers the advantage to
customers of "one-stop shopping" and "single-source billing."  The Commission also noted that
global seamless services include global virtual private networks, high-speed data offerings,
packet-switched networks, bandwidth management products, store-and-forward fax, and e-mail. 
Depending on the needs of users, the services may employ advanced technologies such as frame
relay, asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) and synchronous digital hierarchy technologies, and
may be classified as telecommunications or information services.  Of course, today an IP
network is a critical feature for many global seamless services customers.

     25.  We believe that this definition should be updated to reflect current market
conditions.  We conclude that three modifications are necessary.  First, global MNCs often
"multi-source" (i.e., seek multiple providers) rather than rely on a single source to provide global
seamless services.  Global MNCs have in-house communications experts or hire consultants to
advise them about their multi-million dollar telecommunications purchases, and are often willing
to change their suppliers when they can obtain better terms or to ensure they get the services that
best meet their needs.  Multi-sourcing is also attractive to these global MNCs because it offers
them a benchmark against which to measure their suppliers' performance and enables them to
switch their traffic to other suppliers if one supplier experiences technical problems on its
network.  Thus, for example, as AT&T/BT note: (1) Boeing purchases some global network
services from AT&T, but uses SITA (now Equant) and Sprint as its primary international
services providers; (2) Compaq buys some global network services from AT&T and C&W, but
uses MCI as its major supplier; and (3) Exxon purchases global network services from AT&T,
but uses Global One as its primary international carrier.  Thus, we clarify that global seamless
services can be offered by a single source or multiple sources.  
     
     26.  Second, we clarify that an "integrated international network," as that phrase is
used in the definition of global seamless services, includes a network with either global or
regional coverage.  We make this modification because global MNCs are increasingly using
multiple vendors, with each providing service in a particular geographic region, when purchasing
telecommunications services.  We reject C&W's argument that we should define global
seamless services more narrowly.  C&W argues that global MNCs have no financial incentive to
purchase global seamless services from any carrier that does not have a global facilities-based
network or offer "one stop shopping."  We find there is no evidence in the record to support this
view.  In fact, the record shows that, contrary to C&W's claim, several large global MNCs are
purchasing global seamless services from carriers that do not own facilities-based global
networks or offer "one stop shopping."  Thus, we conclude that a carrier may be a provider of
global seamless services even if it does not own a facilities-based global network or offer "one
stop shopping" on a global scale.  

     27.  Third, because not every carrier that offers seamless service in fact has the
capability to offer such services without network to network interfacing, we amend the definition
of global seamless services to require that the international network have equivalent (though not
necessarily identical) quality, characteristics, features, and capabilities.    

     28.  In analyzing the global seamless services market, therefore, we define global
seamless services as: 

                    a combination of voice, data, video, and other telecommunications
          services that are offered by a single source or multiple sources over an
          integrated global or regional international network of owned or leased
          facilities, and that have equivalent (though not identical) quality,
          characteristics, features and capabilities wherever they are provided.

     2.   Significant Providers of Global Seamless Services 

     29.  We find that the significant providers of global seamless services include the
largest carriers with global networks and established customer bases, emerging providers who are
building advanced IP-based networks and forming alliances with smaller carriers, regional
providers who serve particular geographic regions, and the in-house self-provisioning operations
of numerous global MNCs.  We briefly describe each of these significant providers of global
seamless services.     

     30.  Global alliances: Several of the world's largest telecommunications carriers have
formed global alliances to provide global seamless services.  We describe below the most
significant global alliances, as they are constituted at present.  We note, however, that there have
been, and will continue to be, changes in the membership of these global alliances as they review
their strategic options and as new investment opportunities arise.  The major alliances are:     

     31.  AT&T and its global partners: AT&T provides global seamless services through
its AT&T-Unisource Communications Services (AUCS) joint venture with Unisource (which is
owned by PTT Telecom Netherlands (KPN), Telia, and Swisscom) and WorldPartners
(consisting of Unisource, KDD, Telstra, and Singapore Telecom).  AT&T is the exclusive
distributor of AUCS and Worldpartners services in the United States.  AT&T also acquired
IBM's global data networks in December 1998.  AT&T states that approximately two-thirds of
the assets it acquired from IBM relate to switching and related facilities located in the United
States.  AT&T also states that, in contrast to the large global MNC accounts that it serves
through Unisource and WorldPartners, IBM's customers are primarily small and mid-sized
corporate customers that purchase on average only tens of thousands of dollars of service
annually.   

     32.  BT and its global partners: BT is a significant provider of global seamless
services in Europe and the rest of the world and, through its Concert alliance, in the United
States.  From January 1995 to September 1998, MCI was BT's partner in Concert and the
exclusive distributor of Concert services in the United States.  Concert also developed global
seamless services products which BT, MCI, and their global partners distributed throughout the
world.  After September 1998, when BT bought MCI's shares in Concert and WorldCom bought
BT's shares in MCI, MCI continued to distribute Concert services as a non-exclusive distributor.  

     33.  MCI WorldCom: The combined MCI WorldCom owns and operates a global
platform that enables business customers to combine voice and data traffic from local and
international locations onto one seamless end-to-end network that serves 81 major markets and
over 50 countries.  MCI WorldCom claims that it offers the first and only communications
platform that eliminates boundaries between local and long-distance, voice and data, and Internet
services.  MCI WorldCom offers frame relay and ATM global services, and states that its
seamless network eliminates the need for network to network interfaces that may create
bottlenecks, traffic delays, and reduced efficiencies. 

     34.  Global One: This alliance among Sprint, Deutsche Telecom, and France Telecom
has 1,400 points of presence in over 65 countries.  Global One claims to have one of the world's
largest and most advanced ATM-based networks, which delivers a high speed service -- 1.5
Mbps to 155 Mbps -- that simultaneously supports voice, data, Internet, and multimedia in a self-
healing network.

     35.  Cable and Wireless: C&W states that it operates in over 70 countries and is
building an IP-based global network that includes an Internet backbone in Europe and the Asia-
Pacific region.  With the purchase of MCI's Internet backbones, C&W states that it now offers
integrated voice, data, and Internet services in the United States and throughout the world.

     36.  Equant: Formerly known as SITA, the global data network for major airlines,
Equant states that it operates an advanced IP-based network that offers global wide area network
(WAN)-to-local area network (LAN)-to-Desktop connectivity over the world's largest
commercial data network, which extends to over 220 countries and territories.  Equant claims
that it offers commercial customers fully managed end-to-end services over an integrated global
network.  

     37.  Potential emerging providers: We also find that several new carriers and alliances
are emerging as potentially significant providers of global seamless services.  Many of these
carriers are fast-growing due to their ability to provide global services over "state-of-the-art" IP-
based global networks.  For instance, Teleglobe, the largest Canadian international services
carrier, announced plans to build an IP-protocol network that will reach 400,000 route miles on
several continents.  Qwest and KPN, a Dutch carrier, recently completed the first of six fiber
optic rings across Europe that will provide IP-based services to large corporate customers. 
Global Crossing, which recently acquired Frontier, is building a global IP network that may be
the first to be completed.  GTS, which merged with Esprit to provide service over its pan-
European network in 12 countries and 20 cities, also is building a global IP-based network to
carry traffic at speeds up to 1.28 terabits per second.   Level 3, which is building a global IP
network with transatlantic and transpacific undersea cables joining the continental networks,
plans to offer an innovative bandwidth package to corporate customers that includes free voice
services.  Viatel is a facilities-based international services provider building the Circe network
in Europe and has operations in the United States, Latin America, and the Pacific Rim.   

     38.  Regional providers: In addition, we find that several carriers that provide only
limited services or serve only limited geographic regions could become significant participants in
this market.  These regional providers offer global seamless services using a variety of different
strategies.   IDT, a U.S. carrier, is serving South America, the Caribbean, and Asia; Primus
operates a global network with digital gateway switches in the U.S., Canada, Australia, the U.K.,
and Mexico; Star has a proprietary network that extends to 40 countries; Pacific Gateway
Exchange has gateway facilities in the U.S., U.K., Russia, and New Zealand; and COLT is a
London-based carrier that owns networks throughout Europe.  

     39.  Self-provisioning:  As an alternative to purchasing a package of global corporate
communications from a global seamless service provider, corporate customers can (and do)
purchase and manage, through their own telecommunications departments, the component piece-
parts of those services from various facilities-based providers.  In-house provisioning continues
to be a significant source of supply of global seamless services for MNCs.  One study found that
80 percent of Fortune 500 companies, for instance, spent up-to half their total
telecommunications budgets for in-house provisioning, although the companies expected to
reduce these expenditures in the future in favor of outsourcing (i.e., retaining carriers to provide
managed voice and data services).

     3.   Competitive Analysis of the Global Seamless Services Market 

     40.  A merger can have an anticompetitive effect in a given market if it increases
concentration in the market to such an extent that the exercise of market power becomes more
likely and the ability of competitors to enter the market and constrain the exercise of market
power is impeded by barriers to entry.  As noted above, concerns that arise in a merger context
are also applicable in reviewing a proposed joint venture.  Thus, we need to evaluate whether
the proposed transaction (1) increases significantly concentration in the market, and, if so (2)
whether there are significant barriers to entry into the market.  Even if the proposed transaction
increases significantly concentration in a market, free entry into the market will prevent the
ability of the newly-formed entities to act anti-competitively.  

     a.   Market Concentration Analysis
     
     41.  We first examine the extent to which the joint venture between AT&T and BT
will increase concentration in the market for global seamless services and whether the joint
venture will facilitate the exercise of market power.  Although we typically examine market
share data as the starting point of our analysis, we find that accurate and reliable market share
data are not available for this market.  Neither C&W nor GTE, both of whom assert that the
proposed JV will have market power in the global seamless services market, provide any market
share data to support their claims.  AT&T/BT estimate that the combined market share of AT&T
and BT in the global seamless services market is less than 10 percent.  AT&T/BT further state
that their combined market share rises to no more than 13.5 percent if IBM's global assets that
AT&T acquired are included.  We also note that the European Commission estimates that
AT&T's and BT's combined market share for global telecommunications services is between 30
percent and 50 percent.  As discussed below, however, we find that all these estimates have
limitations for purposes of determining market share in the global seamless services market.  

     42.  AT&T/BTs' estimate is derived from two reports that probably overstate the size
of the market and understate AT&T/BTs' market share.  We note that AT&T acknowledges that
its own records show that the CIT report understates its earnings from providing global seamless
services.  In addition, the CIT study further understates AT&T/BTs' market share by excluding
"the MN&S [managed network and support services] revenues of the parent companies from
their respective home countries."  The CIT report, thus, does not include AT&T's revenues from
providing global network services to U.S.-based MNCs and BT's revenues from providing global
network services to U.K.-based MNCs.  In addition, we note that these reports define two
different markets (i.e., "network management & support services" and "global VANS") that do
not correspond exactly with the market for global seamless services.  Both reports probably
overstate the size of the market, and understate the combined AT&T/BT share, by including
revenues from companies that provide various network support, facilities management and
VSAT management services that are beyond the scope of global seamless services.  Finally,
even on the basis of the two reports AT&T/BT identified, AT&T/BT have understated the
market share contribution from AT&T's acquisition of IBM's global networks.  While AT&T/BT
cite the CIT report to support their claim that the IBM network will increase the combined
AT&T/BT share from 10 percent to 13.5 percent of the global seamless services market, we
find that the McGraw Hill report states that, in each year from 1994-1999, IBM's market share
alone is approximately 10 percent, AT&T's share is 6-7 percent, and BT/MCI's share is 3-4
percent.  For these reasons, we conclude that the two reports do not support AT&T/BTs'
contention that the combined AT&T/BT market share is less than 10 percent without including
IBM's global network or 13.5 percent including IBM's global network.  

     43.  We also note that, although the EC stated in a press release that it estimated that
AT&T/BT had a combined market share of 30 percent to 50 percent.  AT&T/BT argue that the
EC's estimate is a "worst-case" estimate based on two sources of information: revenue data
submitted by six carriers (AT&T, BT, MCI WorldCom, Global One, Equant, and C&W) and a
third-party analysis of the expenditures of 200 global MNCs.  AT&T/BT assert that the EC
significantly understated the size of the market, and overstated the AT&T/BT share, by including
revenues from only six carriers.  As noted above, we believe that several emerging carriers,
regional providers, and global MNC self-provisioning operations should also be included in our
analysis as significant providers of global seamless services.  Thus, to the extent that the EC
based its estimate on only six carriers, we conclude that for purposes of our analysis the EC
estimate may overstate the combined AT&T/BT share of the market. 

     44.  Despite the lack of accurate market share data, however, we find there is
substantial evidence that the joint venture will combine the international assets of two significant
providers of global seamless services.  For instance, GTE states, and AT&T/BT do not dispute,
that AT&T and BT will contribute assets worth billions to the JV, including: services to, and
facilities in, 237 countries; operating agreements with over 400 carriers; traffic amounting to 25
billion minutes; 200,000 private line circuits; more than 6,000 nodes in 52 countries, covering
1,000 cities; undersea cable systems throughout the world; and customer service and network
management operations on four continents.  We also note that AT&T/BT estimate that the JV
will have 6,500 large global MNC and carrier 
accounts and earn over $10 billion in annual revenues.  Thus, we conclude that the proposed
joint venture is likely to increase concentration in the global seamless services market.  

     45.  We are not persuaded, however, by C&W's argument that the proposed joint
venture will eliminate a significant provider of global seamless services in the United States. 
C&W claims that, based on its own experience in bidding for contracts with global MNCs, BT
and AT&T are always included among the top three to five potential suppliers and "one or the
other will usually win the bid."  C&W claims that the proposed JV will eliminate competition
between AT&T and BT.  C&W, however, offers no evidence to support these claims and
AT&T/BT deny them.  AT&T/BT argue that, for the most part, AT&T is a U.S distributor, and
BT is a European distributor, of global seamless services.  AT&T/BT also state that Concert,
which BT and MCI jointly owned from January 1995 to September 1998, always had a strong
U.S. distributor:  MCI was the exclusive distributor until it was acquired by WorldCom and
AT&T and MCI then became non-exclusive distributors.  BT did not market Concert services in
the U.S. except to customers who contacted BT directly.  BT's U.S. revenue from these walk-in
customers since September 1998, which amounts to less than 5 percent of Concert's new U.S.-
based customers, is not sufficient to make BT a significant competitor in this market.  Thus, we
find that, in fact, AT&T and BT do not provide "head to head competition" to provide global
seamless services to U.S.-based MNCs.  Accordingly, we conclude that a joint venture between
AT&T and BT would not result in the loss of a significant competitor in the United States. 
Instead, because AT&T is replacing MCI as BT's U.S. partner and MCI has merged with
WorldCom, AT&T and MCI WorldCom will continue to compete in this market.  There is
insufficient information in the record to find that the joint venture will not result in the loss of a
significant competitor in non-U.S. markets.  However, we note that, even if the joint venture
results in the loss of a significant competitor in those markets, the joint venture will not have an
anticompetitive effect because there are no significant barriers to entry.  

     46.  We further note that there is no certainty whether the AT&T/BT JV will be able to
"migrate" their current customers onto their planned IP platform.  An IP platform differs
fundamentally from the circuit-switched technology by which global seamless services are
currently provided by AT&T and BT.  The services provided by the JV over the IP platform will
likely differ substantially in quality, price, and kind from the status quo.  MNC customers will
doubtlessly evaluate carefully whether to take service under the new terms and conditions that
the JV offers or whether to acquire service elsewhere.  

     b.   Barriers to Entry
                    
     47.  As noted above, a transaction that increases concentration in a market will not
have an anti-competitive impact if the ability of competitors to enter that market is
unconstrained.  The ability of competitors to enter freely depends on their ability to obtain, at
reasonable terms and prices, inputs, as well as firm-specific assets and capabilities, necessary for
the provision of service in that market.  Further, as we stated in MCI WorldCom, the provision of
services to larger business customers depends in large part on the ability to obtain critical inputs
such as international transport capacity and operating agreements with carriers on the foreign
end, as well as the technical ability to provide the services demanded by larger business
customers.  Although we concluded that the proposed joint venture will increase concentration
in the global seamless services market, we now find that, because competitors can freely obtain
the necessary inputs and they have the technical assets and capabilities to provide global
seamless services, the JV is unlikely to have the ability to act anticompetitively in this market.    

     48.  First, we must determine if AT&T/BT has the ability to act anticompetitively in
the international transport capacity market.  In the MCI WorldCom Order, we examined in great
detail the international transport capacity market, reviewing the Atlantic, Pacific, and Latin
American/Caribbean markets.  On the trans-Atlantic route, we found that, by the end of 1999,
AT&T and BT would own 7.8 percent, and 3.7 percent, respectively, of international transport
capacity.  By contrast, we found that Global Crossing (with 40 percent), MCI WorldCom (with
23.3 percent) and C&W (with 15.9 percent) would have larger market shares for capacity on this
route.  We note that there have been no changes in the ownership of existing cables since
September 1998.  Thus, we find that the numbers quoted above are reasonably accurate market
share descriptions of U.S.-U.K. international transport capacity at present.  Using these numbers,
we calculate that AT&T/BTs' combined ownership of U.S.-U.K. international transport capacity
is 11.5 percent.  We also determine that the proposed joint venture would increase the HHI
concentration, calculated on the basis of ownership of cable capacity, by 60 points, from 2,480 to
2,560.  As we noted in MCI WorldCom, however, "using only ownership shares is likely to
increase the level of concentration in the transport market compared to the level if  IRU's were
taken into account."  Thus, we also calculate market shares and HHI based on IRU leasehold
interests.  By this measure, we find the market share distribution of the largest IRU leaseholders
is as follows: MCI WorldCom 26.6 percent; C&W 12.2 percent; AT&T 8.1 percent; Teleglobe
5.6 percent; Level 3 5.0 percent, DT 4.6 percent, and BT 3.8 percent.  In addition, Global
Crossing holds 16.4 percent of IRUs.  We also determine that the proposed joint venture would
increase the HHI concentration, calculated on the basis of IRU leaseholds of U.S.-U.K. cable
capacity, by 60 points, from 1,290 to 1,350.  We note that according to the 1992 Horizontal

Merger Guidelines, a transaction that increases HHI concentration by 60 points on the U.S.-U.K
route would not raise significant competitive concerns.  Although we do not include them in our
analysis of market concentration, we also note that several additional transatlantic cables are in
the planning stages and are scheduled to be in service between late 1999 and late 2001.  Thus,
we conclude that AT&T/BT does not have the ability to act anticompetitively in the U.S.-U.K.
international transport capacity market.

     49.  We also find that AT&T/BT do not have the ability to act anticompetitively on the
Pacific and Latin/American/Caribbean routes.  In the Pacific, AT&T owns 12.1 percent and BT
owns 0.4 percent, for a combined share of 12.5 percent of capacity.  Other owners of capacity on
the Pacific route include: MCI WorldCom 9.6 percent, KDD 7.4 percent, Sprint 6.0 percent, and
10 other carriers each with 5 percent.  Similarly, in the Caribbean, AT&T owns 20.8 percent, BT
owns 0.1 percent, MCI WorldCom (including Embratel) owns 42.3 percent and Sprint owns 14.4
percent.  Because BT's ownership of cable capacity amounts to 0.4 percent on the Pacific route
and 0.1 percent on the Latin American/Caribbean route, and there is no evidence that BT's share
of cable capacity will be significantly greater if measured on an IRU basis, we do not further
analyze AT&T/BTs' ability to act anticompetitively on these routes.  Thus, we conclude that
the JV will not have sufficient capacity on any route to exercise market power over international
transport capacity.  Accordingly, we do not agree with Equant that we should require the JV
provide unbundled access to international transmission circuits.
     
     50.  Second, we also conclude that the JV's competitors have the ability to obtain
operating agreements from foreign carriers.  As we have noted previously, carriers are generally
able to obtain operating agreements to terminate traffic or use alternative arrangements to
provide international services.    Furthermore, as countries implement their market access
commitments made as part of the WTO Basic Telecom Agreement, U.S. carriers will be able to
obtain operating agreements from new entrants as well as incumbent carriers in these countries. 
In addition, carriers have been successful in providing international service through alternative
arrangements such as switched hubbing through a third country.  Thus, we conclude that the
ability to obtain operating agreements is not a barrier to entry into the global seamless services
market for the JV's competitors.  

     51.  Finally, we conclude that many carriers have the technical know-how to provide
global seamless services.  As we stated in the MCI WorldCom Order, the special assets and
capabilities that are important attributes in serving residential customers are less important in the
larger business market.  Particularly for sophisticated customers like global MNCs, retail assets
and capabilities are far less important than price and service factors.  Thus, we do not agree with
C&W that barriers to entry to this market are high or that the JV will have the ability to lock-in
its customers.  C&W does not submit any evidence to support this claim.  To the contrary,
global MNC customers are increasingly using multiple vendors to supply their global seamless
services needs.  Furthermore, we note that global MNCs have multimillion-dollar budgets for
purchasing global seamless services and are staffed by in-house experts able aggressively to seek
out competing providers.  Thus, we conclude that the possession of technical assets and
capabilities is not a barrier to entry into the global seamless services market for the JV's
competitors. 

     c.   Application Program Interfaces
     
     52.  We consider in this section GTE's and Equant's allegations that the JV will be able
to monopolize the global seamless services market through the adoption of proprietary
application program interfaces (APIs), described below.  GTE claims that AT&T/BT have an
initial advantage in the global seamless services market and, because of this, will be able to
establish their proprietary APIs as the industry standard, allowing the JV to dominate the global
seamless services market.  We find that AT&T/BT do not have an initial advantage in the
global seamless services market that would allow them to establish their APIs as the industry
standard.  Distinguishing between API calls and API programs, as described below, we find that
the JV is unlikely to adopt proprietary API calls and would be unable to use proprietary API calls
to lessen competition even if it did adopt them.  We also find that, although the JV is likely to
adopt proprietary API programs, such programs will not enable the JV to lessen competition.  As
a result of these findings, we are not persuaded by GTE's and Equant's allegations.

     53.  An IP telecommunications network can be conceived of as having three layers:
applications programs, APIs, and an IP platform.  The top layer consists of applications
programs, which are software packages that provide desired telecommunications services to
customers.  The middle layer consists of APIs, which generally consist of software providing a
set of functions necessary for the operation of applications programs on the IP platform.  The
bottom layer is the IP platform, which consists of software and hardware that support the higher
layers and provides transmission and routing of messages.

     54.  GTE claims that AT&T/BT will adopt proprietary APIs.  By the term
"proprietary," GTE means that AT&T/BT will not develop APIs that are operable on rival
networks or that AT&T/BT will not make their APIs available to rival carriers on reasonable
terms and prices or at all.  According to GTE, AT&T/BT's large actual and potential base of
customers will motivate software developers to write application programs specially tailored to
AT&T/BTs' proprietary APIs and incompatible with the IP systems of competitors.  According
to GTE, the existence of a "rich array" of application programs compatible only with the JV's
system will draw ever more customers to the JV's system, ultimately leading to a phenomenon
called "tipping."  "Tipping" is defined as the tendency for a system with an initial edge over
incompatible, rival systems to become an industry standard and thus achieve market
dominance. The end result, according to GTE, will be that the JV will attain a monopoly
position, with their rivals relegated to a fringe position."

     55.  Because APIs permit the application programs to interact with the network, APIs
are a crucial input in the provision of communications services over an IP platform.  In essence,
GTE argues that AT&T/BTs' initial advantage in the global seamless services market will allow
them to establish their proprietary APIs as the industry standard, thus giving AT&T/BT control
over this input market and allowing AT&T/BT to extend their market power into the global
seamless services market, which relies on APIs as an input.

     56.   We are not persuaded by GTE that AT&T/BT have an initial advantage that will
allow them to tip the global seamless services market through the use of proprietary APIs. 
AT&T/BT are not alone in developing a global IP telecommunications network and there is no
evidence in the record that they are the current leaders.  Also, although AT&T and BT are
significant competitors in the global seamless services market, it is not at all clear that the JV
will be able to "migrate" customers onto its planned IP telecommunications network or that it has
more favorable access to important MNC accounts than that afforded to other major market
participants.   Even though the JV will have considerable size and resources, this is no
guarantee of success in the rapidly changing global seamless services market.  

     57.  Neither are we persuaded by GTE that AT&T/BT will use proprietary APIs to
lessen competition, as we explain in detail below.  Although there is no industry consensus on
terminology regarding APIs, it is useful to distinguish between API calls and API programs. 
An API call is a request by the applications program for a needed task to be performed over the
IP platform.  An API program is a computer program that actually performs the requested task
over the IP platform.  Different API programs can support the same API call.  GTE does not
distinguish between API calls and programs.  AT&T/BT distinguish between APIs (what we
describe here as API calls) and API source code or interface programs (what we describe here as
API programs).  AT&T/BT claim that their API calls will not be proprietary but acknowledge
that their API programs may be proprietary.  We consider first the issue of proprietary API
calls and then proprietary API programs.

     58.  AT&T/BT indicate that they will use non-proprietary API calls, i.e., that they will
use API calls developed by open industry standards-setting bodies in so far as possible and that
they will not limit access to the API calls supported by their IP platform.  AT&T/BT state that
they will adopt open standards that will "facilitate interoperability between the Global Venture's
network and the networks of others, including both distributors and competitors."  
Furthermore, AT&T/BT give a number of persuasive reasons why adoption of proprietary API
calls would be counterproductive to their efforts to compete in the global seamless services
market.  According to AT&T/BT, use of proprietary API calls would delay the roll-out of the
JV's services; drive away MNCs that fear being locked into a system reliant on proprietary API
calls; limit the JV's ability to attract partners and distributors; limit the JV's ability to access
the industry-wide pool of innovations; and incur significant risk that JV's proprietary API calls
will be forced out by open standards.  Based on these considerations, we are convinced that
AT&T/BT are not likely to use proprietary APIs in an anti-competitive manner successfully.
     
     59.  AT&T/BT acknowledge that, due to rapidly developing and highly competitive
markets, they may choose to deploy a new service or feature even before the industry standards-
setting process has concluded and that they wish to "shape the competitive landscape" by getting
industry standards-setting bodies to adopt innovative API calls originated by AT&T/BT. 
AT&T/BT state, however, that such non-standard API calls will be published and so will be no
less open than those endorsed by a standards-setting body.  Prior to adoption by an industry
standards-setting body, API calls may be open in the sense of freely accessible yet not open in
the sense of widely accepted and operable on rival networks.  It is conceivable that if AT&T/BT
enjoy early technological and commercial success with their IP network, they may be able to
dominate the standards-setting process, making the standards-setting process a ratification of
their own corporate decisions and guaranteeing, for example, that they are first-to-market with
new services.  However, there is no evidence in the record to support the likelihood of such an
eventuality.  Also, as discussed above, AT&T/BT do not have an initial advantage over their
rivals in the provision of global seamless services over an IP network.  Therefore,  abuse of the
standards-setting process is as likely to be caused by any significant competitor in the global
seamless service market as by AT&T/BT.  We could not guard against such potential abuse by
rejecting the proposed transaction, as suggested by GTE, or imposing non-discrimination and
disclosure requirements regarding APIs solely on the JV, as suggested by Equant.

     60.  As mentioned above, AT&T/BT acknowledge that their API programs may be
proprietary.  We are, however, unpersuaded by GTE's argument that the use of proprietary API
programs by AT&T/BT poses a risk to competition in the global seamless services market.  In
the theory of dynamic competition, the profit motive impels entrepreneurs to develop
innovations, such as proprietary API programs, which in turn increase consumer welfare.  As
long as applications programs rely on non-proprietary API calls, rivals have the option of
supporting those API calls on their IP platform by obtaining API programs in the marketplace or
developing their own API programs.  Thus, along with contributing to technical progress,
proprietary API programs create no insurmountable barriers to entry that could lessen or
significantly postpone competition in the global seamless services market.
     
     61.  In summary, we are not persuaded by GTE's arguments.  We find that AT&T/BT
do not have an initial advantage in the global seamless services market which would enable them
to use APIs to compete unfairly; that AT&T/BT will be unable to use proprietary API calls to
exclude competitors from access to desirable applications programs; and that the development of
proprietary API programs by AT&T/BT will not create barriers to entry or otherwise impede
competition in the global seamless services market.  We believe that precluding the proposed
transaction, as GTE suggests, or imposing conditions on the development and use of API calls or
programs by the JV, as Equant suggests, could interfere with the ability of global seamless
services customers to obtain desired services and could reduce innovation, because it would
eliminate or handicap a significant market participant.  We find, therefore, no basis in GTE's
arguments for rejecting the merger or imposing non-discrimination and disclosure requirements
on the JV regarding APIs.
     
     B.   U.S.-U.K. Route

     62.  We consider in this section the competitive effects of the proposed joint venture
on the U.S.-U.K. route.  In particular, we consider C&W's claim that AT&T and BT will raise
rivals' costs on the U.S.-U.K. route by using the joint venture to self-correspond.  As the
Commission stated in the BT/MCI Order, a merger can have an anticompetitive effect if it
increases either the incentives or the ability of the integrated firm to raise the costs of its rivals to
the detriment of consumer welfare.  We are not persuaded here by C&W's claim, however, that
AT&T and BT will be able successfully to raise their rivals' costs on the U.S.-U.K. route by
using the joint venture to self-correspond.  We further find that the joint venture is consistent
with Commission policy to encourage the movement away from the traditional accounting rate
regime and toward competitive alternatives, including end-to-end provisioning, for the
termination of international traffic.
     
     63.  C&W argues that, if the proposed joint venture is approved, AT&T and BT would
engage in a strategy to raise rivals' costs in order to insulate themselves from accounting rate
reductions and to maintain supra-competitive prices in the retail market.  C&W contends that
AT&T and BT could execute such a strategy by terminating all of AT&T's traffic on the U.S.-
U.K. route with BT rather than terminating some AT&T traffic with rivals of BT, including
C&W.  According to C&W, an exclusive AT&T/BT arrangement would force C&W to incur
higher settlement outpayment because its U.K.-U.S. traffic flows would not be offset by AT&T
return minutes from the United States.  In order for such a strategy to be successful, AT&T and
BT would have to ensure that C&W and other rivals could not terminate their traffic in the
United States at low rates or offset lost revenues in the U.K. termination market by replacing
AT&T inbound-minutes with minutes from other U.S. carriers.  Market conditions on the U.S.-
U.K. route, however, make it highly unlikely that AT&T and BT could successfully engage in a
strategy to raise rivals' costs.
     
     64.  The U.S.-U.K. route is one of the most competitive in the world, and there are
many alternatives to AT&T for termination of traffic in the United States.  C&W may terminate
traffic with many facilities-based carriers in the U.S.; it may terminate traffic via ISR at very low
rates; and it may build its own facilities in the U.S. and self-correspond.  Given the level of
competition on the U.S.-U.K. route and the availability of ISR, it is highly unlikely that the joint
venture could successfully maintain prices to terminate traffic in the United States that are above-
cost, as C&W argues.  Contrary to C&W's claim, we expect that AT&T's competitors in the
U.S. market for termination of international traffic would respond to any strategy to raise rivals'
costs by undercutting AT&T's price to terminate traffic in the United States.
     
     65.  On the U.K. end of the route, there are buyers of U.K. termination service other
than AT&T.  We are not convinced, however, by C&W's argument that "the ability of C&W to
make up the shortfall in return traffic by dealing with other carriers is fatally limited by AT&T's
dominant share of the U.S.-U.K. market and the lack of sufficient non-AT&T traffic."  Given
the level of competition on the U.S.-U.K. route, we expect that U.S. carriers will seek the lowest
cost alternative for terminating traffic in the United Kingdom.  Thus, if C&W offers low cost
termination, it should be able to attract traffic from U.S. carriers.  Moreover, we note that the
U.S.-U.K. market has been growing at a rapid pace, approximately 14 percent annually, since
1991.  As a result, there is increasing opportunity for C&W and other rivals of BT to terminate
non-AT&T minutes in the United Kingdom.
     
     66.  C&W urges the Commission to impose the proportionate return requirement of
the International Settlement Policy (ISP) between AT&T and the joint venture in their dealings
with BT for some period of time in order to prevent AT&T and BT from engaging in a strategy
to raise rivals' costs.  In light of our conclusion that C&W has not shown that AT&T and BT will
be able successfully to engage in a strategy to raise rivals' costs on the U.S.-U.K. route through
self-correspondence, we decline to impose a proportionate return requirement that would limit
the ability of AT&T and the joint venture to self-correspond.
     
     67.  We also note that the proportionate return condition urged by C&W would be
contrary to recent Commission policies lifting regulations on U.S. carrier accounting rate
negotiations.  The Commission recently concluded in its ISP Reform Order that, on routes
where there are competitive alternatives to terminate traffic, the Commission should not impose
regulatory burdens on the settlement of international traffic and instead should let market forces
dictate what arrangements U.S. carriers enter into with their foreign correspondents. 
Specifically, the Commission found that there is no reason to require continued compliance by
U.S. carriers with the ISP, including the proportionate return requirement, on routes where rates
to terminate international traffic are at least 25 percent below the benchmark rates adopted by the
Commission.  The Commission concluded that the ISP is not necessary to prevent
anticompetitive behavior on routes where there are competitive alternatives to terminate traffic
and, in fact, the ISP could hinder the further development of competition on such routes.  In
addition, the Commission has found that competition is best promoted by breaking the link
between the markets for outbound and inbound calls that is required by the ISP's proportionate
return requirement.  To that end, Commission policy has sought to foster separate competitive
markets for termination and origination of international minutes in the United States.

     68.  C&W has provided no reason to question the application of these policies to the
U.S.-U.K. route, where there are many alternatives to AT&T for termination of traffic in the
United States and to BT for termination of traffic in the United Kingdom.  As noted above, there
are several facilities-based carriers to terminate traffic on both ends of the U.S.-U.K. route and,
in both the United States and the United Kingdom, carriers may provide end-to-end service by
purchasing or leasing facilities to terminate their own traffic.  In addition, both the United
States and United Kingdom permit carriers to terminate international traffic via International
Simple Resale (ISR) arrangements.

     69.  C&W also urges the Commission to require AT&T and BT to divest, at cost, the
half-circuits they maintain with other correspondent carriers, upon election of the correspondent
carriers.  C&W states that divestiture is necessary because, if AT&T and BT self-correspond on
the U.S.-U.K. route, they can force their other correspondents to strand the half-circuits that
currently are used to carry AT&T and BT traffic.  In a subsequent ex parte filing, C&W modified
its request, urging the Commission to require divestiture, "at market prices," "to the extent that
actual stranding (or significant idling) of half-circuits occurs."

     70.  We are not convinced that a condition mandating divestiture, either at cost or
"reasonable rates," is necessary.  AT&T has committed to "divest, at prevailing market rates and
terms . . . [its] existing US-end half circuits with a competitor's UK-end half circuits that the
global venture determines . . . are unlikely to be used to deliver significant volumes of traffic." 
Moreover, C&W has not shown that AT&T and BT would be willing to incur the costs of
stranding their own half of the circuits they maintain with other correspondents.  As noted above,
C&W may still compete to terminate AT&T traffic in the United Kingdom.  There is thus no
basis to conclude that C&W's half circuits with AT&T will be idle.  Given these considerations,
we decline to condition approval of the joint venture on divestiture by AT&T and BT of the half-
circuits they maintain with other correspondent carriers.  We do note, however, that Commission
policy disfavors allowing capacity to remain idle.  Therefore, if C&W or any other
correspondent that maintains half-circuits with AT&T can demonstrate that AT&T has idled
matched half-circuits on the U.S.-U.K. route, without a valid business reason, the Commission
will entertain a petition to require the sale of those idled half-circuits at market rates.

     C.   Third Country Routes

     71.  C&W asserts that the proposed joint venture will enable AT&T and BT to raise
rivals' costs on third country routes by routing foreign-originated minutes destined for a third
country through AT&T in the United States.  According to C&W, this strategy would earn
AT&T return traffic at the expense of its competitors on the third country route.  C&W alleges
that, for example, BT could send to a third country only the volume of minutes that matches the
volume that country sends to the U.K., leaving BT with no settlement outpayment.  BT could
then send any additional traffic to the third country through AT&T's network in the United
States, thereby earning AT&T return traffic.
     
     72.  Consistent with the Commission's holding in the BT/MCI Order, we conclude that
there is no reason to restrict the ability of AT&T and BT to reoriginate BT third country traffic
via AT&T's U.S. network.  Least-cost routing mechanisms such as reorigination are an
economically rational response to inflated settlement rates and, as such, the Commission has not
found that they should be prohibited or limited generally.  In fact, the Commission has
encouraged the development of least-cost routing mechanisms as a way to put pressure on above-
cost accounting rates.  Moreover, as the Commission noted in the BT/MCI Order, all carriers
have an equal incentive and ability to reoriginate traffic through the United States in order to
reduce settlement payments.

     D.   Transit Market
     
     73.  We consider here the competitive effects of the proposed joint venture on the
transit market.  In particular, we consider C&W's allegation that the joint venture will result in
an increase in concentration on many of what C&W refers to as "thin routes," or routes on which
BT and AT&T are the only carriers or on which they control more than 60 percent of traffic. 
C&W argues that this level of concentration will allow the joint venture to charge above-cost
rates to carriers for transit services.  To remedy these alleged anticompetitive effects of the
joint venture, C&W urges the Commission to require AT&T and BT to divest capacity on
individual routes on which they are the only two, or two of the only three, facilities-based
carriers.  C&W also proposes that the joint venture's contracts to supply international carriage
services to other carriers must not have a term of more than 12 months or include onerous
termination notice requirements or penalties.

     74.  We conclude that C&W has not provided sufficient evidence for the Commission
to conclude that the joint venture will harm competition in the transit market.  While C&W
charges that the joint venture will control more than 60 percent of traffic on so-called thin routes,
C&W provides no evidence concerning the identity of such routes or the market shares of rivals
on those routes.  The Commission does not regulate the transit market and does not have
information about foreign carriers' transit routes.  Without this information, the Commission can
make no determination as to the ability of the joint venture to exercise market power on a
particular route.  We therefore decline at this time to require the joint venture to divest capacity
on certain transit routes or to impose any restrictions on the joint venture's offering of transit
services.

     75.  It is the Commission's understanding that, as a general matter, the global transit
market is highly competitive.  As AT&T/BT note, there are thousands of routes to the 240
countries of the world.  In addition, it is the Commission's understanding that there is no dearth
of capacity on most transit routes and that there are no barriers to entry for firms with excess
capacity to provide transit services in competition with the joint venture.  The Commission is
also aware, however, that there are concerns that transit rates are excessive on some routes. 
There is no agreement, though, on the causes of high transit rates on certain routes.  High rates
could be caused by a number of factors, including inadequate competition, high underlying
accounting rates, low traffic volumes, and inadequate information in the marketplace.  Because
we have no basis to conclude that the proposed joint venture would exacerbate the concern about
high transit rates on some routes, we decline at this time to impose any restrictions on the joint
venture.  We will, however, continue to monitor the transit market to ensure that the joint
venture, as well as other transit providers, are not acting in an anticompetitive manner. 

     E.   Public Interest Benefits 

     76.  We find that the proposed joint venture is likely to have several possible pro-
competitive effects.  First, the joint venture will give BT a strong U.S. partner to replace MCI as
a provider of global seamless services to U.S.-based MNCs.  As we noted, BT has been unable to
generate significant revenues by selling Concert services in the United States after the break-up
of its proposed merger with MCI in September 1998.  However, a combined AT&T/BT
operation, such as the JV, is more likely to be able to offer U.S. customers increased choices and
services by competing with the other alliances and carriers in this market.  Second, AT&T, too,
may become a more effective competitor in the global seamless services market by replacing its
former loosely-formed global alliance with the proposed joint venture with BT.  AT&T/BT, for
instance, argue that AT&T's former global alliance was "less than maximally effective" in
serving global MNCs because it did not offer them a single point of contact or comparable
technologies and architectures worldwide. The JV, by contrast, proposes to offer services
tailored to the needs of global MNCs and to build an IP-based global network that uses open
standards.  Third, by building an IP-based global network that will offer high-speed transport
capacity to the world's largest cities, the JV will further the development of packet-switched
international networks and facilitate the migration from the circuit switched network.  The result
will be to benefit users of voice, data, and video services who demand increased bandwidth. 
Finally, the joint venture is likely to benefit consumers by encouraging the movement away from
the traditional accounting rate regime and toward competitive alternatives, including end-to-end
provisioning, for the termination of international traffic.

     F.   National Security Issues 
     
     77.  The Executive Branch has raised concerns regarding national security and law
enforcement in this proceeding, which, pursuant to the public interest analysis articulated in the
Commission's Foreign Participation Order we must consider.  In comments filed with the
Commission, the Department of Defense (DOD) requests that the parties undertake negotiations
to ensure that national security and law enforcement issues will be protected should the proposed
JV take place.  Similarly, in its comments on the proposed JV, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI), through the Department of Justice (DOJ), voices concern regarding national
security, public safety, and law enforcement.

     78.  DOD, DOJ, FBI, and AT&T/BT have informed the Commission that they have
reached an agreement that resolves the national security, law enforcement, and public safety
issues raised in the DOD, DOJ, and FBI comments.  The parties have submitted a copy of the
executed agreement (DOD/DOJ/FBI Agreement) which conditions the grant of the application to
obtain or transfer licenses and authorizations on compliance with the agreement.  In brief, the
DOD/DOJ/FBI Agreement provides that all domestic telecommunications infrastructure owned
directly or indirectly by AT&T/BT will be owned and controlled by VLT and License Co.
(collectively, the Company) and will at all times be located in the United States.  Further, all
telecommunications of United States JV subscribers carried over the Company's facilities shall
pass through a facility, from which surveillance can be conducted, that is physically located in
the United States and under the control of either the Company or a licensed United States carrier. 
The Company agrees to take reasonable and appropriate measures to prevent improper use of
facilities used in the domestic telecommunications infrastructure, specifically with respect to
personnel holding sensitive positions, information storage and access, and disclosure to foreign
entities. The parties have also agreed to adopt and maintain certain policies with regard to
confidentiality and security of electronic surveillance orders and authorizations, orders, legal
process, and statutory authorizations and certifications related to subscriber records and
information.  Finally, the parties have also agreed to implement certain measures requiring
personnel security clearances, secure storage facilities, and the prevention of access by
unauthorized personnel to secure or sensitive network facilities and offices.

     79.  We note that the Agreement, the negotiation of which delayed significantly
resolution of this proceeding, reflects a unique situation and contains certain provisions that, if
broadly applied, would have significant consequences for the telecommunications industry. 
These provisions, if viewed as precedent for other service providers and potential investors,
would warrant further inquiry on our part.  Therefore, this agreement does not establish
precedent for future cases.  However, notwithstanding these concerns about the broader
implications of some provisions of this Agreement, we see no reason to modify or disturb the
Agreement of the parties on this matter.

     80.  In accordance with the request of the DOD/DOJ/FBI and the discussion above, we
condition our grant of the application to obtain or transfer certain licenses and authorizations in
connection with the proposed JV on compliance with the DOD/DOJ/FBI Agreement, a copy of
which is attached hereto as Appendix B.
     
                   V.  COMPETITIVE SAFEGUARDS 
     
     81   In this section, we review whether, as a result of the proposed transaction, our
dominant carrier safeguards should apply to AT&T and the JV entities and whether there is a
need for additional regulatory safeguards to prevent anticompetitive harms.
     
     A.   Dominant Carrier Status of AT&T and the JV Entities
     
     82   Under Section 63.10 of our rules, we classify a U.S. carrier as dominant on a U.S.
international services route if it is "affiliated" with a foreign carrier that has sufficient market
power on the foreign end to affect competition adversely in the U.S. market.  The rule further
states that, if the U.S. carrier demonstrates that its foreign affiliate possesses less than 50 percent
market share in the international transport and local access markets on the foreign end of the
route, the U.S. carrier shall presumptively be classified as non-dominant.  In addition, in the
Foreign Carrier Entry Order, the Commission stated that dominant carrier regulation may be
warranted if a non-equity alliance such as the proposed joint venture posed a "substantial risk of
anticompetitive effects" on a particular route.

     83.  We clarified the definition of "affiliation" in our recent biennial review of
international common carrier regulations.  As currently defined, a U.S. carrier is affiliated with
a foreign carrier if:  (1) the U.S. carrier owns more than 25 percent of, or controls, the foreign
carrier; (2) the foreign carrier owns more than 25 percent of, or controls, the U.S. carrier; or (3)
the foreign carrier has entered into an alliance or joint venture with a second foreign carrier to
provide telecommunications services and the two foreign carriers together own more than 25
percent of, or control, the U.S. carrier.

     84.  VLT and TLTD.  In this case, we find that the JV entities VLT and TLT are U.S.
carriers affiliated with BT within the meaning of our rules because BT owns more than 25
percent of both VLT and TLTD.  We also find that, because AT&T/BT did not attempt to
demonstrate that BT has less than 50 percent of the U.K. local exchange market, under our rules
we presume that BT has market power in the U.K.  Thus, we conclude that VLT and TLTD
will be regulated as dominant carriers on the U.S.-U.K. route under Section 63.10 of our rules.  

     85   We note that, as dominant carriers, VLT and TLTD will be required to file
quarterly reports on traffic and revenues, provisioning and maintenance of basic services and
facilities procured from BT, and circuit status on the U.S.-U.K. route.  In addition, VLT and
TLTD must maintain limited structural separation from BT, including a prohibition on jointly
owning transmission or switching facilities.  AT&T/BT state that VLT and TLTD will report,
on a quarterly basis, provisioning and maintenance of basic services and facilities procured from
BT directly or indirectly.  Consistent with our rules, VLT and TLTD must file quarterly reports
on provisioning and maintenance procured from BT directly or indirectly, including through
Concert.  We make AT&T/BTs' compliance with our rules a condition of this order. 
     
     86   Although we conclude that VLT and TLTD are dominant because they are
affiliated with BT, we also find that neither VLT, TLTD nor Concert, the JV's U.K.-licensed
affiliate, has market power with regard to any of the input markets in which they own or control
assets, i.e., the markets for international transport and U.K. cable landing stations.  As noted
above, no carrier has market power in the U.S.-U.K. transport capacity market.   In addition, a
number of international facilities operators, in addition to Concert, provide access to cable
landing stations in the United Kingdom.  For instance, C&W operates the cable landing stations
for Gemini, and Global Crossing operates the cable landing station for AC-1.  In 1999, 30
percent of U.S.-U.K. self-healing submarine cable capacity will land at BT cable landing stations
and 70 percent at cable landing stations operated by C&W and Global Crossing.  Also, as we
have previously noted, there are no significant barriers to entry by new firms in this market.  

     87   C&W asserts that our dominant carrier requirements "will not adequately
constrain the ability of the JV to misuse its market power" and urges us to impose a set of "more
stringent reporting requirements" on the JV entities than for other carriers affiliated with foreign
carriers with market power.  However, as discussed above, we find that the JV entities do not
have market power on the U.S.-U.K. route.  Thus, we conclude that the additional reporting
requirements C&W urges us to adopt are not necessary to prevent VLT and TLTD from acting
anticompetitively.  

     88.  We are not persuaded by C&W's claim that the JV would be able to identify
potential customers, and thereby gain an anticompetitive advantage over its U.S. competitors, by
using customer and carrier information that BT derives from its local exchange operations in the
United Kingdom.  Section 63.21(e) of our rules prohibits U.S. carriers from accessing or using
specific U.S. customer proprietary network information that is derived from a foreign network,
unless the carrier obtains approval from the U.S. customer.  Section 63.21(f) prohibits U.S.
carriers from receiving from a foreign carrier any proprietary or confidential information
pertaining to a competing U.S. carrier, unless the competing U.S. carrier provides written
permission.  Thus, our rules prohibit AT&T, VLT, and TLTD, all of which are licensed U.S.
carriers, from accepting or using any confidential U.S. customer or carrier information without
prior approval from the customer or carrier.  We also note that, in the BT/MCI Order, the
Commission concluded that Conditions 38 and 38A of BT's license prohibit BT from using
confidential customer information to gain an unfair competitive advantage, and Condition 41A of
BT's license prohibits the disclosure of confidential carrier information.  C&W states that Oftel
has not included similar conditions in the JV's proposed U.K. license and, therefore, urges us to
prohibit AT&T/BT from using confidential customer and carrier proprietary information that
they obtain from BT.  We find, however, that such conditions are not necessary because Oftel's
proposed licenses for BT includes prohibitions against the unauthorized disclosure of
confidential customer and carrier information.  Thus, we reiterate the finding in the BT/MCI
Order that U.K. regulations protect U.K. customer and carrier proprietary information against
unauthorized disclosure.  Therefore, we conclude that it is not necessary to adopt a condition
prohibiting AT&T, VLT, and TLTD from using in their own marketing efforts customer
information that BT derives from its customers or other carriers as a result of providing
interconnection in the United Kingdom.   

     89   AT&T.  We also examine whether AT&T should be classified as a dominant
carrier on the U.S.-U.K. route under Section 63.10 of our rules.  Concert, the JV's U.K.-licensed
affiliate, is a foreign carrier on the U.S.-U.K. route and, because AT&T holds more than 25
percent of its ownership shares, we find that Concert is affiliated with AT&T under our rules. 
For the reasons stated above, however, we conclude that Concert does not have market power in
any of the input markets in which it owns or control assets, i.e., the markets for international
transport and U.K. cable landing stations.  We also address whether Concert, because of its
affiliation with BT, may derive market power as a result of BT's market power over U.K. local
access and termination.  We conclude that, while BT has market power that could enable it to
favor the JV, our competitive safeguards prevent the U.S.-licensed JV entities from accepting
any preferential treatment from BT.  However, to ensure that there is no loophole that would
permit the JV to accept a special concession from BT through Concert, we adopt as a condition
of this order AT&T/BTs' compliance with Section 63.14 of our rules.  Accordingly, we
conclude that Concert does not have market power on the U.S.-U.K. route, and, therefore, AT&T
should not be regulated as dominant on the U.S.-U.K. route by virtue of its affiliation with
Concert.   In addition, we conclude that AT&T is not affiliated with BT because: (1) AT&T does
not own more than 25 percent of, or control, BT; (2) BT does not own more than 25 percent of,
or control, AT&T; and (3) BT and Concert together do not own more than 25 percent of, or
control, AT&T.  Thus, we do not agree with MCI WorldCom's argument that AT&T should be
regulated as dominant on the U.S.-U.K. route because it is affiliated with a foreign carrier with
market power in the United Kingdom.

     90.  We are also not persuaded by MCI WorldCom's argument that, even if we find
that AT&T is not affiliated with BT, we should regulate AT&T as dominant on the U.S.-U.K
route because "the interests of AT&T and BT are so intertwined.  As the Commission stated in
the Foreign Carrier Entry Order, dominant carrier regulation may be warranted if a non-equity
alliance such as the proposed joint venture posed a "substantial risk of anticompetitive effects"
on a particular route.  We find there is no such risk in this case.  Under the terms of their
agreement to form a joint venture, AT&T will not buy any services directly from BT, but will
buy services from the JV.  Under the "no special concessions rule," as described below, neither
VLT nor TLTD can accept any exclusive arrangements from BT.  Further, because VLT and
TLTD are regulated as dominant, we will be able to monitor their dealings with BT to ensure that
they do not receive any anticompetitive benefits from BT that they in turn could pass on to
AT&T.  Thus, BT, either directly with AT&T or through the JV, will not have the opportunity to
engage in anticompetitive conduct by discriminating in favor of AT&T.  Thus, we conclude
that the JV does not pose a substantial risk of anticompetitive harm on the U.S.-U.K. route and
dominant carrier regulation for AT&T is not warranted. 

     91.  Finally, we disagree with Star that the JV will violate the Commission's rules
against joint ownership of facilities by a U.S. carrier and its foreign carrier affiliate in
circumstances where the U.S. carrier is regulated as dominant on the affiliated route.  As we
have found, AT&T is not affiliated with BT or otherwise subject to dominant carrier regulation
by virtue of its joint venture with BT.  Thus, AT&T is not prohibited from jointly owning
facilities with BT through the JV.  In addition, we find that VLT or TLTD, because they do not
jointly own any facilities with BT, will not violate the rule.  Indeed, BT, by transferring its
ownership in facilities to a separate subsidiary, i.e., the JV, is complying with our structural
separation requirement.  Thus, we conclude that the JV will not violate the Commission's rules
against joint ownership of facilities by a U.S. carrier and its foreign carrier affiliate deemed to
have market power.  
     
     B.   No Special Concessions Rule

     92.  In the Foreign Participation Order, the Commission adopted certain safeguards to
prevent foreign carriers from leveraging their foreign market power into the U.S. international
services market.  One of these safeguards, the no special concessions rule prohibits U.S.
carriers from agreeing to accept a special concession from any foreign carrier with market power
on the foreign end of a U.S. international route.  Such arrangements, we noted, "could limit rival
U.S. carriers' ability to provide international services, raise these carriers' costs of termination, or
degrade the quality of their service offerings, to the ultimate harm of U.S. consumers.  We also
noted, however,  that "it is unlikely that an exclusive deal involving a foreign carrier that lacks
market power would result in harm to competition and consumers in the U.S. market.  In
addition, in connection with the ISP Reform Order, the Commission issued a Public Notice
containing a list of foreign carriers that are presumed to have market power for purposes of
applying the Commission's No Special Concessions rule.  The Commission stated that a carrier
will be presumed to have market power if it controls, is controlled by, or is under common
control with a carrier identified in the Notice.

     93.  In this case, we conclude that, because BT is a "foreign carrier" that has market
power, the no special concessions rule prohibits AT&T, VLT, and TLTD from accepting any
exclusive arrangements, as defined in Section 63.14(b), from BT.  We agree with commenters
that an exclusive arrangement between AT&T and BT, or between VLT or TLTD and BT, could
raise competing carriers' termination costs in the United Kingdom and impair their ability to
compete on the U.S.-U.K. route.  MCI WorldCom urges us to adopt a specific condition
prohibiting AT&T and the JV from accepting preferential arrangements from BT with respect to
Home Country Direct, 1-800, and ISDN.  We conclude that our no special concessions rule
prohibits AT&T, VLT, and TLTD from accepting any exclusive arrangements from BT with
respect to these and any other basic services and, therefore, we find that specific conditions are
not necessary.  AT&T/BT state that AT&T, VLT, and TLTD, either directly or indirectly through
the joint venture's U.K. subsidiary, Concert, will not accept any special concession from BT that
would violate Section 63.14.  Consistent with our rules, AT&T, VLT, and TLTD, either
directly or indirectly through the joint venture's U.K. subsidiary, Concert, cannot accept any
special concession from BT.  We make AT&T/BTs' compliance with our rules a condition of this
order. 
          
     94.  In addition, we agree with Equant that the no special concessions rule also
prohibits AT&T and VLT and TLTD from accepting any special concessions from other
dominant foreign carriers, in addition to BT.  Equant identifies several exclusive arrangements
between BT and the JV entities that it urges us to specify are prohibited by the no special
concessions rule.  We conclude that our no special concessions rule prohibits VLT and TLTD
from accepting exclusive operating agreements for provision of basic services from any foreign
carrier with market power as well as other exclusive arrangements of the nature described by
Equant, with two exceptions: as the Commission stated in the Foreign Participation Order, the
no special concessions rule by its terms does not prohibit exclusive marketing or transiting
arrangements.  The Commission previously has declined to apply the rule to marketing
arrangements because to do so "would be unduly burdensome and could impede unnecessarily
the provision of one-stop shopping by injecting uncertainty with respect to the scope of
permissible joint activities.  For the reasons stated above, we decline to extend the rule to
prohibit exclusive transiting arrangements as well.

     95.  We note that, under the Public Notice released in connection with the ISP Reform
Order, the JV entities (VLT, TLTD, and Concert) are presumed to have market power for
purposes of the no special concessions rule because they are controlled by BT, a dominant
carrier.  We find, however, that AT&T/BT are able to overcome the presumption that the JV
entities have market power for purposes of applying the no special concessions rule.  As
discussed above, VLT, TLTD, and Concert do not have market power in any of the input markets
in which they own or control assets, i.e., international transport and U.K. cable landing
stations.  Moreover, under the no special concessions rule, VLT and TLTD, either directly or
indirectly through the joint venture's U.K. subsidiary, Concert, cannot accept any exclusive
arrangements from BT.  Thus, the JV will be unable to gain any exclusive arrangement from BT
that it can convey to AT&T without also offering the same arrangement to AT&T's U.S.
competitors.  Accordingly, we conclude that the no special concessions rule does not prohibit
AT&T from accepting provisioning of international network facilities and services from VLT
and TLTD at preferential rates, i.e., at or below cost, rather than at tariffed rates.  

     C.   Equal Access in the United Kingdom

     96.  Equal access refers to a policy of requiring an exchange carrier (such as BT) to
offer its competitors access to its local exchange customers to provide interexchange and
international calls on the same basis as the exchange carrier affords to itself.  We find that the
United Kingdom does not at present offer equal access either through "dialing parity" or
"carrier pre-selection. Instead, U.K. customers who wish to switch to competing providers must
now dial extra digits, use automatic dial-around equipment, or specially program PBXs.  We
find that these extra measures are likely to raise the costs of the JV's competitors thereby
potentially resulting in higher prices for global seamless services.  We also note that the EC's
"Carrier Pre-Selection" directive, which became effective in September 1998, requires the United
Kingdom to adopt carrier pre-selection by January 1, 2000.
     
     97.  We are not persuaded by AT&T/BTs' argument that the U.K.'s lack of equal
access is irrelevant to this proceeding because "BT's local offerings will not be a component of
the [Joint] Venture.  The issue is not whether BT can restrict its competitors' ability to provide
local exchange services but whether BT, as a result of forming a joint venture with AT&T to
provide international services, has the ability and incentive to discriminate against the JV's
competitors in the market to provide global seamless services.  We find that BT can engage in
a form of non-price discrimination by denying equal access to its competitors, and that BT has a
greater incentive to engage in that form of discrimination as a result of forming the joint venture
with AT&T to provide international services.  Thus, we conclude that implementation of equal
access in the United Kingdom is necessary to restrict BT's ability to leverage its market power
over U.K. local access and impede competition in the global seamless services market. 

     98.  We, therefore, require as a condition of approval of this joint venture that VLT
and TLTD not accept BT traffic originated in the United Kingdom to the extent that BT does not
comply with Oftel regulations implementing the EC's carrier pre-selection directive.  Level 3
and Sprint urge us to require BT to provide equal access in the U.K. and Esprit proposes
several interim options as conditions of approving the JV.  We decline to impose these
proposed conditions because, consistent with our findings in BT/MCI, we conclude that Oftel
and the EC will fully enforce the equal access requirement in the United Kingdom.         
     D.   Unbundling the Local Loop in the United Kingdom
     
     99.  BT controls nearly 90 percent of local loops in the United Kingdom and is not
required by U.K. regulations to make the "last mile" available to competitors on an unbundled
basis.  We find, as we did in BT/MCI, that requiring BT to unbundle the local loop would foster
local competition and, therefore, limit BT's ability to leverage control of its local access
bottleneck to discriminate against its competitors in the global seamless services market.  We
are also concerned that, unless Oftel requires BT to unbundle the local loop, Oftel may not be
able to prevent some potential discrimination against the JV's competitors in providing end-to-
end broadband services.  For instance, it is not clear that Oftel's non-discrimination policy is
sufficient to prevent BT from manipulating the deployment of particular technologies (e.g.,
xDSL) that are tailored to the demands of the JV's customers or only in locations that will
primarily benefit the JV.  We note that Oftel has an ongoing proceeding to determine if new
regulations, including unbundling of local loops, are needed to promote delivery of broadband
services in the U.K.  Thus, while we reaffirm that the lack of unbundling in the U.K. local
access market is relevant to determining if BT has the ability to impede competition in the global
seamless services market, we do not agree with MCI WorldCom and Level 3 that we should
require BT to unbundle the local loop in the United Kingdom as a condition of approving the
proposed joint venture.

                     VI. MISCELLANEOUS ISSUES

     A.   U.S. Submarine Cable Landing Stations

     100.      We are not persuaded by Sprint's argument that AT&T has leveraged its
bottleneck control over cable landing stations in the United States to raise the costs of rival U.S.
international carriers.  Although AT&T owns a majority of the U.S. cable landing stations.
AT&T does not have market power in this market.  In fact, MCI WorldCom owns the cable
landing stations at Manasquan, NJ, and Charleston, RI, and Global Crossing owns the cable
landing station at Brookhaven, NY, and these cable landing stations land as much as 70 percent
of self-healing transatlantic cable capacity.  By contrast, AT&T's cable landing stations at
Green Hill, RI, and Shirley, NY, carry approximately 30 percent of self-healing transatlantic
cable capacity.  Because we find that, contrary to Sprint's allegations, AT&T does not have
bottleneck control over cable landing stations, we do not further address the merits of Sprint's
allegations that AT&T abused its position as a cable station owner to benefit itself at the expense
of other consortia co-owners.  We, thus, will not require, as Sprint urges, that the JV disclose to
all cable consortia owners any and all documents concerning the JV's use of consortia assets in
each of the JV's cable stations.  We conclude that any dispute between Sprint and other co-
owners of consortia cables is a contractual dispute to be resolved in accordance with procedures
established in the consortia cables' Construction and Maintenance Agreement.  
     
     B.   Withdrawal of AT&T from its Global Alliances

     101.      AT&T states that on June 7, 1999, it agreed to withdraw from its global alliances
immediately, subject to approval of the European Commission.  Thus, we take no further
action in response to the commenters suggestion that we require AT&T to withdraw from its
global alliances.
     
                                 
                        VII.  CONCLUSION 
     
     102.      For the reasons discussed above, we grant AT&T/BTs' requests for the grant of
Section 214 authority to VLT and TLTD to provide facilities-based and resold international
common carrier services; (b) the assignment to VLT of submarine cable licenses held by AT&T
or its subsidiaries; (c) the assignment to License Co. of certain earth station licenses held by
AT&T or its subsidiaries, and (d) the modification of certain Section 214 authorizations held by
AT&T or its subsidiaries.

                     VIII.  ORDERING CLAUSES

     103. Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that, subject to the conditions below, the
application for grant of Section 214 authority to VLT and TLTD to provide facilities-based and
resold international common carrier services IS GRANTED;

     104.      IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that application for the assignment to VLT of
submarine cable licenses held by AT&T or its subsidiaries IS GRANTED;

     105. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the application for assignment to License Co.
of certain earth station licenses held by AT&T or its subsidiaries IS GRANTED;

     106. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the applications to modify certain Section 214
authorizations held by AT&T or its subsidiaries to the extent necessary to assign to VLT
ownership interests of AT&T in international cable facilities within United States territorial
limits and to assign to TLTD the ownership interests of AT&T in international cable facilities
outside of the U.S. territorial limit IS GRANTED;

     107. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that VLT and TLTD shall be regulated as dominant
carriers, pursuant to Section 214 of the Act, 47 U.S.C.  214, and Section 63.10 of the
Commission's Rules, 47 C.F.R.  63.10, on the U.S.-U.K. route; and that VLT and TLTD will
report, on a quarterly basis, provisioning and maintenance of basic services and facilities
procured from BT directly or indirectly, including through the JV's U.K. subsidiary, Concert.

     108. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that AT&T, VLT and TLTD, either directly or
indirectly, including through the JV's U.K. subsidiary, Concert, will not accept any special
concession from BT that would violate Section 63.14;

     109. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that grant of Section 214 authority to VLT and
TLTD is conditioned upon VLT's and TLTD's non-acceptance of BT traffic originated in the
United Kingdom to the extent BT is found to be in non-compliance with U.K. regulations
implementing the European Commission's equal access requirements;

     110. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, that the authorization and licenses granted herein
are subject to compliance with the provisions of the Agreement attached hereto between AT&T
Corp., British Telecommunications PLC, TNV (NETHERLANDS) BV, VLT CO. LLC, and
Violet License Co. LLC on the one hand and the Department of Defense (the DOD), Department
of Justice (the DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (the FBI) on the other, dated
October 7, 1999, which Agreement is designed to address national security, law enforcement,
and public safety concerns of the DOD, DOJ and the FBI regarding the licenses granted herein. 
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to limit any obligation imposed by Federal law or
regulation including, but not limited to, 47 U.S.C.  222(a) and (c)(1) and the FCC's
implementing regulations.

     111. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED this Order is effective upon release.  Petitions for
reconsideration under Section 1.106 of the Commission's Rules may be filed within 30 days of
the date of public notice of this Order (see Section 1.4(b)(2)).

                         FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION



                         Magalie Roman Salas
                         Secretary
                            APPENDIX A

     The following parties filed comments:
     
     Federal Bureau of Investigation
     Department of Defense
     MCI WorldCom
     Sprint
     GTE
     Star
     Esprit
     AT&T
     Level 3
     Cable and Wireless
     Equant
                            APPENDIX B

     This AGREEMENT is made this 7th day of October, 1999, by and between:
AT&T CORP., BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC, TNV (NETHERLANDS)
BV, VLT CO. LLC, VIOLET LICENSE CO. LLC, THE UNITED
STATES DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (the "DoD"), the UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (the "DoJ") and the FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION (the "FBI") (collectively "the Parties").

                             RECITALS

     WHEREAS, the U.S. telecommunications system is essential to U.S. national security,
law enforcement, and public safety;

     WHEREAS, the U.S. Government considers it critical to maintain the viability, integrity,
and security of that system (see e.g., Presidential Decision Directive 63 on Critical Infrastructure
Protection);

     WHEREAS, protection of Classified, Controlled Unclassified, and Sensitive Information
is critical to U.S. national security;

     WHEREAS, AT&T Corp. ("AT&T") operates a major U.S. telecommunications network
under licenses granted to it and its subsidiaries by the Federal Communications Commission
("FCC");

     WHEREAS, British Telecommunications plc ("BT"), a major telecommunications
company registered under the laws of England and Wales, and AT&T intend to establish a joint
venture, (the "Parent Corporation" as defined in Section 8.1.14, below), to provide international
telecommunications services;

     WHEREAS, AT&T and BT will each own 50% of the outstanding shares of the Parent
Corporation;

     WHEREAS, certain license applications related to the formation of the joint venture
have been filed with the FCC in Docket No. 98-212 on 11/10/1998 and will require approval by
the FCC, and such approval may be made subject to conditions relating to national security, law
enforcement, and public safety;

     WHEREAS, on January 8, 1999, the Federal Bureau of Investigation ("FBI") filed
comments with the FCC expressing national security, law enforcement and public safety
concerns about the approval of such license applications; 

     WHEREAS, on January 19, 1999, the Department of Defense ("DoD") filed comments
with the FCC expressing national security concerns about the approval of such license
applications; 

     WHEREAS, the Parent Corporation will establish direct or indirect United States
subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company," as defined in Section 8.1.3 of this Agreement),
including VLT Co. LLC and Violet License Co. LLC, which will be located in the United States
and which will own and operate the Domestic Telecommunications Infrastructure (as defined in
Section 8.1.7 of this Agreement) directly or indirectly owned by the Parent Corporation;

     WHEREAS, the Parent Corporation will directly or indirectly own all of the outstanding
shares of the Company;

     WHEREAS, the Parties agree that the Company will be required to obtain facility
security clearances issued under the National Industrial Security Program ("NISP") (Executive
Order 12829, January 6, 1993) in order to conduct any of its business that requires access to
Classified Information;

     WHEREAS, the NISP requires that in order to maintain a facility security clearance a
corporation must be effectively insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence ("FOCI");

     WHEREAS, the DoD intends to grant, in accordance with the National Industrial
Security Program Operating Manual ("NISPOM"), a facility security clearance to the Company
in consideration of the Parties' execution and compliance with the provisions of this Agreement;
and

     WHEREAS, because it is difficult to predict exactly how AT&T and BT may wish to
conduct their business in the future, the Parties intend to work closely together and to share
information to permit the Government to monitor the implementation of this Agreement over
time;

     NOW THEREFORE, the Parties are entering into this Agreement to address all
objections that the DoD, the DoJ and the FBI might otherwise have to the grant of FCC licenses
to the Company and transfer of ultimate control of FCC licenses to the Parent Corporation.

                                
                   ARTICLE I  - ORGANIZATION

     1.1  Members and Principal Managers of the Company

     Except as specifically provided herein, the Member or Members of the Company shall
have all of the rights, powers, and responsibilities conferred or imposed upon Members of the
Company by the applicable statutes and regulations, and by the Company's charter documents.
The Company's Principal Managers shall be resident citizens of the United States who have
personnel security clearances at the level of the Company's facility security clearance.  The
Defense Security Service ("DSS") or the designated security component for the FBI (hereinafter,
"FBISC") may authorize temporary appointment of a Principal Manager for whom a personnel
security clearance is under consideration.  Further, all officers (including but not limited to
Principal Managers) and employees of the Company having access to Classified or Sensitive
Information shall be resident citizens of the United States cleared to the level of the Classified or
Sensitive Information to which they have access.

     1.2  Within 90 days after the Effective Date (as defined in Section 7.1) of this
Agreement, the Company shall promulgate written policies and procedures establishing a formal
organizational structure, further described in Article III hereof, to ensure the protection of
Classified, Controlled Unclassified, and Sensitive Information entrusted to it and to place the
responsibility therefor with a committee of its Principal Managers to be known as the
Government Security Committee ("GSC"), as hereinafter provided.  The GSC shall be
established no later than 30 days after the last of its members has received the appropriate
security clearance.  Until that time, oversight of the Company's protection of Classified,
Controlled Unclassified, and Sensitive Information shall be the responsibility of the Company's
designated representative identified in Section 7.3 of this Agreement.

     1.3  Departure and Replacement of Principal Managers

          1.3.1     The Company shall provide written notification to the DSS and the FBISC
in advance, to the extent feasible, of the departure of a Principal Manager of the Company, and
of any replacement for the departed Principal Manager. Any replacement for any departed
Principal Manager shall meet the qualifications set forth in this Agreement.

          1.3.2     The obligation of a Principal Manager to enforce this Agreement shall
terminate when the Principal Manager leaves his/her position. Nothing herein shall relieve the
departing Principal Manager of the responsibility not to disclose Classified, Controlled
Unclassified, and Sensitive Information obtained while a Principal Manager of the Company.
Such responsibility shall not terminate by virtue of leaving a position of Principal Manager. The
Company shall advise the departing Principal Manager of such responsibility, but failure of the
Company to so advise shall not relieve the Principal Manager of such responsibility.

               ARTICLE II - FACILITIES AND RECORDS

     2.1  Except to the extent and under conditions concurred in by the DoD, the DoJ and
the FBI in writing:  (1) all Domestic Telecommunications Infrastructure owned directly or
indirectly by the Parent Corporation will be owned and controlled by the Company and shall at
all times be located in the United States, and (2) all telecommunications of U.S. Joint Venture
Subscribers carried over the Company's facilities shall pass through a facility, from which
Electronic Surveillance can be conducted, that is physically located in the U.S. and under the
control of either the Company or a licensed U.S. carrier.

     2.2  The Company's Domestic Telecommunications Infrastructure shall, to the extent
required under U.S. law, be capable of complying and configured to comply, and the Company's
officials in the United States will have unconstrained authority to comply, in an effective,
efficient, and unimpeded fashion, with:
                         (1)  the orders of the President in the exercise of his/her authority under  706
               of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, (47 U.S.C.  606), and
               under  302(e) of the Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C.  40107(b)) and
               Executive Order 11161 (as amended by Executive Order 11382),

                         (2)  National Security and Emergency Preparedness rules, regulations and
               orders issued by the FCC pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as
               amended (47 U.S.C.  151 et seq.), and

                         (3)  lawful requests by U.S. federal, state or local law enforcement agencies or
               U.S. intelligence agencies, certifications, and court orders regarding
               Electronic Surveillance and the acquisition of Subscriber Information.

     2.3  The Company shall maintain within the United States its principal business office
and security office. If the Parent Corporation or the Company stores Subscriber Information
concerning U.S. Joint Venture Subscribers for any reason:

               a.   the Company shall maintain a current copy of such information in an office in the
          United States, and

               b.   other copies of such information may be stored, and databases concerning same
          may be maintained, outside of the United States.

     2.4  The Company shall store exclusively in the United States if stored by the
Company  for any reason:

               a.   all Classified and Sensitive Information; and  

               b.   the copy of any Wire Communication or Electronic Communication Intercepted
          by U.S. federal, state or local government agents within the United States to
          which the Company may have access.

               2.5  Content of Wire and Electronic Communications     
          
          2.5.1     The Company shall maintain within its Domestic Telecommunications
Infrastructure the technical ability to access, and shall make available technical access to or
provide the stored Electronic Communications and Wire Communications of U.S. Joint Venture
Subscribers pursuant to Lawful U.S. Process. 

          2.5.2     In the event that the Parent Corporation, the Company or any of their
subsidiaries proposes to store Electronic Communications or Wire Communications of U.S. Joint
Venture Subscribers at locations outside of the United States, the Company will give prior notice
of not less than 90 days to the DoJ.  Within 30 days after receipt of such notice, the DoJ may
request that the Company consider the DoJ's views or concerns regarding the potential impact on
the DoJ's authorities.  Upon receipt of such request, the Company will consider both the
availability and suitability, from a cost, technical and business perspective, of any reasonable
alternatives, including retaining storage in the U.S.  Notwithstanding this process or any other
provision of this Agreement, at the end of the 90-day period the Parent or subsidiary may
proceed with any action not prohibited by law.  The foregoing prior notice and consultative
process shall not apply to:   (1) situations where Electronic Communications or Wire
Communications of U.S. Joint Venture Subscribers are already stored outside of the United
States; or (2) situations where an individual customer's requirements result in the storage of that
customer's Electronic Communications or Wire Communications outside of the United States.  

          2.5.3     AT&T, BT and the Company shall participate in an industry forum that is
sponsored by the DoJ, and that includes representatives from telecommunications carriers,
equipment suppliers and Internet service providers, to examine law enforcement policy in the
context of global communications.  AT&T, BT and the Company also will encourage the
participation of other domestic and international industry members in such discussions.   

          2.5.4     Nothing in this Agreement shall require the Company to store any
information or data for a longer period than such information and data are stored in the ordinary
course of the Company's business.  Nothing in this Agreement shall exempt the Company from
compliance with U.S. legal requirements for the retention or preservation of such information or
data.

     2.6  Except as provided below, the Company shall not provide access to the Wire
Communications, Electronic Communications, or Subscriber Information of U.S. Joint Venture
Subscribers maintained by the Company to any person if the purpose of such access is to respond
to legal process or a request of a foreign government or a component or subdivision thereof.

     2.7  The Company shall not, directly or indirectly, disclose or permit disclosure of, or
provide access to any of the following:

               (a)  Classified or Sensitive Information,

               (b)  the copy of any Wire Communication or Electronic Communication Intercepted
          by U.S. federal, state or local government agents within the United States, or
     
               (c)  Subscriber Information of U.S. Joint Venture Subscribers maintained by the
          Company under Section 2.3

to any foreign government or a component or subdivision thereof without the express written
consent of the U.S. Department of Justice or the authorization of a court of competent
jurisdiction in the United States. Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding sentence,
the Company shall not disclose Classified Information to any person not having the requisite
U.S. Government security clearance. Any requests or any legal process submitted by a foreign
government or a component or subdivision thereof to the Company or an Affiliate for the
information identified in (a) through (c) above that is maintained by the Company shall be
referred to the U.S. Department of Justice as soon as possible and in no event later than five (5)
business days after such request. At least every 3 months, the Company shall notify the U.S.
Department of Justice in writing of requests by foreign non-governmental entities for access to or
disclosure of either the content of a Wire Communication or Electronic Communication, whether
or not stored, or Subscriber Information maintained by the Company.

     2.8  The Company shall establish and comply with policies and practices to ensure the
safeguarding of Classified, Controlled Unclassified and Sensitive Information, as provided in
Article III of this Agreement, and designed to prevent any network, electronic, or other access
from outside the United States or from facilities not specifically designated within the United
States, to Classified and Sensitive Information, and Controlled Unclassified Information
requiring a U.S. export license, entrusted to the Company. In addition, as provided in Article III,
or in policies and practices to be established as a result of this Agreement, such safeguarding
shall include, but is not limited to, technical security protection, personnel security clearances,
and the execution of nondisclosure agreements.

     2.9  Except to the extent and under conditions concurred in by the DoD, the DOJ and
the FBI in writing, the Company shall have no technological capability, including any
technological interface or connection, direct or indirect, that would enable the Company to
control any part of the Domestic Telecommunications Infrastructure of AT&T or any other
telecommunications company. In addition, the Company shall have no technological capability
that would enable it to learn (1) of Lawful U.S. Process regarding AT&T's, or any other
telecommunications company's, domestic or international networks or (2) about Classified or
Sensitive Information maintained by AT&T or any other telecommunications company.

     2.10 Sensitive Network Monitoring Personnel

          2.10.1    The Company shall verify the recent employment and residence history of
persons who assume positions in the category of Sensitive Network Monitoring Personnel
working in any part of its Domestic Telecommunications Infrastructure.  The Company shall
provide this information, as well as personal identifying information for such persons (including
name(s), alias(es), date and place of birth, social security number, visa and passport numbers) to
the FBI.  The purpose of this provision is to ensure the trustworthiness of Sensitive Network
Monitoring Personnel.

          2.10.2    Following the receipt of this information, if the FBI reasonably believes
that a person is not sufficiently trustworthy to occupy a position in the category of Sensitive
Network Monitoring Personnel and so notifies the Company, the person shall not be permitted to
hold a position in such a category; provided, however, that after fourteen (14) days shall have
passed after the provision of required information to the FBI by the Company, and no adverse
notice shall have been received from the FBI, that person shall be deemed suitable to begin work
as Sensitive Network Monitoring Personnel.

          2.10.3    If the DoD or the FBI provides information to the Company regarding any
person occupying a position in the category of Sensitive Network Monitoring Personnel that
reasonably would have precluded that person's occupying a position in the category of Sensitive
Network Monitoring Personnel at the outset, then the FBI and the Company shall promptly
review this information and promptly make a determination concerning that person's
trustworthiness and the appropriateness of such person's continuing to occupy such position in
the category of Sensitive Network Monitoring Personnel.  If adverse information material to the
trustworthiness of a person within the category of Sensitive Network Monitoring Personnel
comes to the attention of the Company, then the Company shall either remove the person from
such position or promptly provide information about the matter to the FBI.  The Company may
provide such information to the FBI in a manner that maintains the anonymity of such person, to
the extent feasible and proper.

                                 
            ARTICLE Ill - OPERATION OF THIS AGREEMENT

     3.1  Policies and Practices

          3.1.1     This Agreement establishes the basis for a facility clearance, which shall
be issued to the Company upon satisfaction of the NISPOM review and approval process. The
Company shall maintain practices and written policies designed to prevent unauthorized
disclosure of or access to the Classified, Controlled Unclassified, and Sensitive Information
entrusted to it.

          3.1.2     The Company's policies and practices shall provide that the Company
shall exclude any person who does not have the requisite U.S. government clearance, whether or
not such person is an officer, employee, agent or other representative of an Affiliate, from access
to Classified and Sensitive Information. Within 90 days from the Effective Date of this
Agreement, the Company shall establish these policies and practices which shall be subject to the
review and approval of the DSS and the FBISC. Such policies and practices shall not be repealed
or amended without prior written notice to, and agreement of, the DSS and the FBISC.

          3.1.3     AT&T agrees not to reveal or transfer Classified or Sensitive Information
to the Company or to any other person except with prior written authorization by the DoD or the
FBI. Where such authorization is granted, the information will be protected in the same manner
as it was by AT&T.

     3.2  Government Security Committee Compliance Programs

          3.2.1     There shall be established within the Company a permanent Government
Security Committee ("GSC") consisting of no fewer than three Principal Managers and at least
one other cleared manager (other than a Principal Manager of the Company). The members of
the GSC shall ensure that the Company complies with the policies and practices established
pursuant to section 3.1, and shall establish policies and procedures for oversight and monitoring
of the Company's compliance with this Agreement.

          3.2.2     The Chairman of the GSC shall be a Principal Manager of the Company.
The chairman shall designate a GSC member to serve as secretary of the GSC. The secretary
shall be responsible for ensuring that all records, journals and minutes of GSC meetings and
other documents sent to or received by the GSC are prepared and retained for inspection by the
DSS and the FBISC.

          3.2.3     A Facility Security Officer ("FSO") shall be appointed by the Company
and shall be the principal advisor to the GSC concerning the safeguarding of Classified and
Sensitive Information. The FSO shall be responsible for the oversight of the Company's
compliance with the requirements of the NISP and this Agreement.

          3.2.4     The Company shall develop and implement a Technology Control Plan
("TCP"), which shall be subject to review by the DSS and shall prescribe measures to prevent the
unauthorized disclosure or export of Controlled Unclassified Information consistent with
applicable United States laws and this Agreement.

          3.2.5     A Technology Control Officer ("TCO"), who may be the same person as
the FSO, shall be appointed by the Company and shall be the principal advisor to the GSC
concerning the protection of Controlled Unclassified Information. The TCO shall be responsible
for the establishment and administration of all intra-company procedures, including employee
training and oversight programs, to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or export of Controlled
Unclassified Information and to ensure that the Company complies with the requirements of
United States export control laws and this Agreement.

          3.2.6     Upon taking office, the GSC members, the FSO and the TCO shall be
briefed by a DSS and a FBISC representative on: (1) their responsibilities under the NISP; (2)
the laws related to Electronic Surveillance and the acquisition of Subscriber Information; (3)
United States export control laws; and (4) this Agreement.

          3.2.7     A member of the GSC shall advise the DSS and the FBISC telephonically
as soon as possible after any member of the GSC is aware of or otherwise believes there has been
a violation of, or an attempt to violate: (1) any provision of this Agreement; (2) contract
provisions regarding security; (3) United States export control laws; (4) the laws relating to
Electronic Surveillance and the acquisition of Subscriber Information; or (5) the NISP. Such
GSC member shall provide a written report of any such violation to the FBISC, and if
appropriate, also to the DSS within 5 business days of the date upon which the GSC becomes
aware of the violation.

          3.2.8     Upon accepting his or her appointment and thereafter at each annual
meeting of the Company with the DSS and the FBISC as provided in subsection 3.3.1, each
member of the GSC shall execute and deliver to the DSS and the FBISC an acknowledgment of
the obligations imposed by this Agreement and his or her obligations to enforce this Agreement,
and a certification regarding the Member's best efforts to ensure compliance by the Company
with this Agreement.

     3.3  Annual Review and Certification

          3.3.1     Representatives of the DSS, the FBISC, the GSC, the FSO and the TCO
shall meet annually to review this Agreement and to establish a common understanding of the
obligations of this Agreement and the manner in which the Agreement is being implemented.

          3.3.2     One year from the effective date of this Agreement and annually
thereafter, the Chairman of the GSC shall submit to the DSS and the FBISC an implementation
and compliance report. The report shall include the following information:

                                   a.   a detailed description of the manner in which the Company is
                    carrying out its obligations under this Agreement;

                                   b.   a detailed description of changes to the Company's security
                    procedures, implemented or proposed, relating to the Affiliates and
                    the reasons for those changes;

                                   c.   a summary of any acts of noncompliance with the terms of this
                    Agreement, whether inadvertent or intentional, which have
                    occurred in the previous year, whether previously reported or not,
                    with a discussion of any steps taken by the Company to prevent
                    such acts;

                                   d.   a detailed chronological summary of all disclosures or transfers, if
                    any, of Classified and Sensitive Information, and Controlled
                    Unclassified Information requiring a U.S. export license, from the
                    Company to the Affiliates, with an explanation of the United States
                    governmental authorization relied upon for such disclosures or
                    transfers. Copies of any approved export licenses covering the
                    reporting period shall be appended to the report; and

                                   e.   a discussion of any other issues that could have a bearing on the
                    effectiveness or implementation of this Agreement.

     3.4  Access to Facilities and Information

          3.4.1     Upon reasonable notice, the DoD, the DoJ or the FBI may visit any facility
of the Company or its subsidiaries in the United States and may inspect any part of such facility
for the purpose of verifying compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

          3.4.2     Upon reasonable request from the DoD, the DoJ or the FBI, the Company,
on behalf of itself and the other Parties shall be authorized to and shall,

                                   a.   provide access to information, and

                                   b.   make available for interview any officer or employee located in the
                    United States who may be able to provide information

to assist the DoD, the DoJ and the FBI in assessing and verifying the other Parties' compliance
with their obligations under this Agreement and in determining whether additional measures are
needed.

     3.5  Forms, Reports, Certifications

          The GSC shall prepare and submit any form, report, or certification required by
the DSS or the FBISC.

     3.6  Cooperation in Investigations

          The Company shall, under this Agreement, cooperate with the DoD, the DoJ and
the FBI in investigating, inter alia: (i) breaches of this Agreement; (ii) Electronic Surveillance
conducted in violation of Federal or state law or regulation; (iii) access to or disclosure of
Subscriber Information in violation of Federal or state law or regulation or this Agreement; or
(iv) improper access to or disclosure of Classified Information or Sensitive Information by the
Company or any Affiliate.

                            ARTICLE IV
       DISPUTES AND NON-IMPACT ON OTHER GOVERNMENT ACTIONS

     4.1  Dispute Resolution

          The Parties shall use their best efforts to resolve any disagreements that may arise
under this Agreement. Disagreements will be addressed, in the first instance, at the staff level by
the Parties' designated representatives. Any disagreement that has not been resolved at that level
shall be submitted promptly to higher authorized officials, unless the DoD, the DoJ or the FBI
believes that important national interests can be protected, or the Company believes that
paramount commercial interests can be resolved, only by resorting to the measures set forth in
section 4.3.1 below.  If, after meeting with higher authorized officials, either party determines
that further negotiation would be fruitless, then either party may resort to the remedies set forth
in Section 4.3.1 below.  If resolution of a disagreement requires access to Classified Information,
the designees of all Parties shall possess the appropriate security clearances.

     4.2  Denial of Access to Information
          Nothing contained in this Agreement shall limit or affect the authority of the head
of a United States Government agency to deny, limit or revoke the Company's access to
Classified, Controlled Unclassified, and Sensitive Information under its jurisdiction.

     4.3  Enforcement of Agreement

          4.3.1.    Remedies for Breach.  Subject to section 4.1 of this Agreement, if any
Party believes that any other Party has breached or is about to breach this Agreement, that Party
may bring an action against the other Party for appropriate judicial relief.  Alternatively, (1) the
DoJ, the FBI or the DoD may bring an action for relief (including equitable relief) before the
FCC, and (2) the Affiliates and the Company may petition the FCC for a declaratory ruling with
respect to the Affiliates' or the Company's obligations under this Agreement. Nothing in this
Agreement shall waive any defenses to or immunities from suit that a Party may otherwise have.
Nothing in this Agreement shall limit or affect the right of the head of a U.S. Government agency
to seek revocation by the FCC of any license, permit or other authorization granted or given by
the FCC to the Parent Corporation or the Company, or any other sanction by the FCC against the
Parent Corporation or the Company, or the right to seek civil sanctions from a U.S. Federal
District Court Judge or Magistrate, for any violation by the Parent Corporation or the Company
of any U. S. law or regulation or term of this Agreement.

          4.3.2     No Waiver of Other Remedies.  Subject to section 4.3.3 of this
Agreement, the availability of any civil remedy under this Agreement shall not preclude the
exercise of any other civil remedy under this Agreement or under any provision of law, nor shall
any action taken by a Party in the exercise of any remedy be considered a waiver by that Party of
any other rights or remedies. The failure of the DoD, the DoJ, or the FBI to insist on strict
performance of any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to exercise any right they grant, shall
not be construed as a relinquishment or future waiver, rather, the provision or right shall continue
in full force.  No waiver by the DoD, the DoJ or the FBI of any provision or right shall be valid
unless it is in writing and signed by the DoD, the DoJ or the FBI.

          4.3.3     Forum Selection.  It is agreed by and between the Parties that a civil action
for judicial relief with respect to any dispute or matter whatsoever arising under, in connection
with, or incident to, this Agreement that is not resolved under section 4.1 of this Agreement shall
be brought, if at all, in and before a Federal court of competent jurisdiction in the United States,
to the exclusion of the courts of any state, territory, or other nation.

     4.4  Criminal Sanctions.  

          Nothing in this Agreement limits the right of the United States Government to
pursue criminal sanctions against the Company or any Affiliate, or any director, Member, officer,
employee, representative, or agent of any of these companies, for violations of the criminal laws
of the United States.

                     ARTICLE V - TERMINATION

     5.1  Terminations by the DoD,  the DoJ, and the FBI

          This Agreement may be terminated only by the DoD, the DoJ, and the FBI. The
circumstances in which termination may be considered are:

                                   a.   when the DoD, the DoJ, and the FBI determine that:

                                             i).  existence of this Agreement is no longer necessary to
                         maintain a facility security clearance for the Company;

                                             ii). continuation of a facility security clearance for the
                         Company is no longer necessary;

                                             iii).     there has been a material breach of this Agreement that
                         requires it to be terminated;

                         b.   in the event of a sale of the Company to a company or person not
          under FOCI;

                         c.   when the DoD, the DoJ, and the FBI otherwise determine that
          termination is in the national interest; or

                         d.   when the Company petitions the DSS and the FBISC to terminate.
          A petition shall contain the reason termination is requested. The DoD, the DoJ,
          and the FBI will determine, in their sole discretion, whether termination is in the
          interests of the United States.

     5.2  Notice of Termination by the DoD, the DoJ, and the FBI

          If the DoD, the DoJ, and the FBI elect to terminate this Agreement, the DoD, the
DoJ, and the FBI shall provide the Company with thirty (30) calendar days written advance
notice stating the reason for termination.

                                 


   ARTICLE VI - NON-OBJECTION BY DoD, DoJ AND FBI TO THE GRANT
                          OF FCC LICENSES

     6.1  Non-Objection

          6.1.1     Upon the execution of this Agreement, the DoD, the DoJ and the FBI will
notify the FCC that, provided the FCC approves this Agreement and adopts the Condition to
FCC Licenses attached hereto as Exhibit A, the DoD, the DoJ and the FBI have no objection to
the grant of licenses that are the subject of the application filed with the FCC in Docket Number
98-212 on 11/10/1998.

          6.1.2     Provided that the FCC approves this Agreement and adopts the Condition
to FCC Licenses, neither the DoD nor the DoJ shall make any objection they otherwise would
have made concerning the formation of the Parent Corporation to the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the United States or the President.

                      ARTICLE VII -- GENERAL

     7.1  Effective Date. 

     The Effective Date of this Agreement shall be the date of the closing of the transaction
establishing the Parent Corporation or the date upon which the Parent Corporation, the Company
or any of their subsidiaries begin operations pursuant to the authorities granted by the FCC in
Docket No. 98-212, whichever is sooner. 

     7.2  Right to Make and Perform Agreement. 

     AT&T and BT represent that, to the best of their knowledge, they have and will continue
to have throughout the term of this Agreement the full right to enter into this Agreement and
perform their obligations hereunder and that this Agreement is a legal, valid, and binding
obligation of AT&T, BT, the Parent Corporation and the Company enforceable in accordance
with its terms.

     7.3  Notices. 

     With the exception of service of Lawful U.S. Process, all requests for information, visits,
interviews and all reports, notices, and proposed modifications provided under this Agreement
shall be made to the parties' designated representatives. All reports, notices and proposed
modifications under this Agreement shall be delivered by (1) registered or certified U.S. mail; (2)
overnight courier (receipt requested); or (3) facsimile (confirmed by mail) addressed to the
addresses shown below, or to such other addresses as the Parties may designate by agreement.
The representatives shall be:

               For AT&T:           Steven W. DeGeorge
                                   c/o AT&T Corp.
                                   2020 K Street, N.W.
                                   Suite 712
                                   Washington, D.C.  20006

               For BT:             Alan Whitfield
                                   British Telecommunications plc
                                   BT Centre (BTC-EC)
                                   81 Newgate Street
                                   London EC1A7AJ ENGLAND

               For the Parent Corporation:   Walter Desocio
                                   General Counsel
                                   AT&T- BT Global Venture
                                   Room 6110
                                   1200 Peachtree Street, N.E.
                                   Atlanta, GA  30309

               For the Company:         Steven W. DeGeorge
                                   c/o AT&T Corp.
                                   2020 K Street, N.W.
                                   Suite 712
                                   Washington, D.C.  20006

               For DSS:            Defense Security Service
                                   1340 Braddock Place
                                   Alexandria, Virginia 22314-1651

                                   with a copy to:

                                   General Counsel 
                                   Department of Defense
                                   The Pentagon
                                   Washington, D.C. 20301 - 1600

               For FBISC:               National Security Division
                                   Attn: Unit Chief, NSU, NS-5A
                                   Room 1B045
                                   FBI Headquarters
                                   935 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W.
                                   Washington, D.C.  20535
                                   with a copy to:  

                                   FBI General Counsel
                                   935 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
                                   Washington, D.C.  20535

               For the DoJ:             Assistant Attorney General
                                   Criminal Division
                                   Main Justice Building
                                   950 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W.
                                   Washington, D.C. 20530
               
     7.4. Other Laws.  

     Nothing in this Agreement is intended to limit or constitute a waiver of (i) any obligation
imposed by Federal or state law or regulation on Affiliates and the Company; (ii) any obligation
imposed by Federal law or regulation on the DoD, the DoJ, or the FBI; (iii) any enforcement
authority available under Federal or state law or regulation; (iv) the sovereign immunity of the
United States; or (v) any authority over Affiliates' activities or facilities that the U.S.
Government may possess. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to benefit or confer a right
upon any person other than a Party to this Agreement or other U.S. federal, state or local
government entities entitled to conduct Electronic Surveillance.  Nothing in this agreement shall
require, expressly or by implication, the violation of any domestic or foreign law.

     7.5. Statutory References.  

     All references to statutory provisions or to Executive Orders shall include any future
amendments to such authorities.

     7.6. Precedence of Agreement.  

     In the event that any resolution, regulation or provision of the charter documents of the
Company is inconsistent with any provision of this Agreement, this Agreement shall control.

     7.7. Amendment and Modification of Agreement. 

          7.7.1     Amendment.     This Agreement may be modified only by a written
agreement signed by all of the Parties. Any substantial modification to this Agreement shall be
reported to the FCC within thirty (30) days after approval by the Parties.

          7.7.2     Modification. Beginning on the date which is eighteen months after
execution of this Agreement, the Parties agree to consider in good faith possible modifications to
this Agreement as may be required for the consistent application of U.S. national security, law
enforcement and public safety laws and policies to the Company vis-a-vis other international
communications services in like circumstances.
     
     7.8  Headings. 

     The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only, and do not in
any way affect the meaning or interpretation of the provisions.

     7.9  Location of Agreement. 

     Until the termination of this Agreement, one original counterpart shall be kept at the
principal office of the Company.

     7.10 Freedom of Information Act.   

          7.10.1   Marking of Information.  The DoD, DoJ and the FBI shall take reasonable
precautions to protect from improper public disclosure all information submitted by the Affiliates
and the Company to the DoD, DoJ and the FBI in connection with or in furtherance of this
Agreement and clearly marked with the legend "Company Confidential" or similar designation. 
Such marking shall represent to the DoD, DoJ and the FBI that the information so marked
constitutes "trade secrets" and/or "commercial or financial information obtained from a person
and privileged or confidential," or otherwise warrant its protection within the meaning of 5
U.S.C.  552(b)(4).  For purposes of 5 U.S.C.  552(b)(4), the parties agree that such information
is voluntarily submitted.  In the event of a request under 5 U.S.C.  552(a)(3) for information so
marked, the DoD, DoJ or the FBI, as appropriate, shall notify the Company of such request and
consult with it as to any contemplated release (including release in redacted form) of such
information.  The DoD, DoJ or the FBI, as appropriate, shall notify the Company five (5)
business days in advance of any release of such information under 5 U.S.C.  552(a)(3).

          7.10.2   Use of Information for Government Purposes.  Nothing in this Agreement
shall prevent the DoD, DoJ or the FBI from lawfully disseminating information as appropriate to
seek enforcement of this Agreement, or as otherwise necessary in furtherance of the missions,
responsibilities, or obligations of the DoD, DoJ or the FBI, provided that the DoD, DoJ or the
FBI shall take reasonable precautions to protect from improper public disclosure information
marked as described in the preceding section.  Where feasible, the DoD, DoJ and the FBI will
make information available for inspection rather than providing copies thereof.
     
     7.11  Partial Invalidity. 

     If any provision of this Agreement is declared invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, this Agreement shall be construed as if such provision were reformed or
deleted, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect,
unless this construction would constitute a substantial deviation from the Parties's intent as
reflected in this Agreement.

     7.12   Execution in Counterpart. 

     This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an
original.

               ARTICLE VIII -- DEFINITION OF TERMS

     8.1  Definitions:   As used in this Agreement:

          8.1.1     "Affiliates" means AT&T, BT, (as described in the Recitals), and the
Parent Corporation, individually or collectively, all entities (other than the Company) that
Control or are Controlled by the Parent Corporation and all successors and assigns of such
parties and entities.

          8.1.2     "Classified Information" means any information that has been determined
pursuant to Executive Order 12958, or any predecessor or successor order, or the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954, or any statute that succeeds or amends the Atomic Energy Act, to require protection
against unauthorized disclosure.

          8.1.3     "Company" means VLT Co. LLC and Violet License Co. LLC, as
described in the Recitals, and any other direct or indirect subsidiaries of the Parent Corporation
that own or control any part or portion of the Domestic Telecommunications Infrastructure, and
any successor(s) or assigns.

          8.1.4     "Control" or "Controlled" as used in Section 8.1.1 of this Agreement, 
mean the power, direct or indirect, whether or not exercised, and whether or not exercised or
exercisable through the ownership of a majority or a dominant minority of the total outstanding
voting securities of an entity, or by proxy voting, contractual arrangements, or other means, to
determine, direct, or decide matters affecting an entity, in particular, but without limitation, to
determine, direct, take, reach, or cause decisions regarding:

                                   (1)  The sale, lease, mortgage, pledge, or other transfer of any or all of
                    the principal assets of the entity, whether or not in the ordinary
                    course of business;
     
                                   (2)  The dissolution of the entity;

                                   (3)  The closing and/or relocation of the production or research and
                    development facilities of the entity;

               (4)  The termination or non-fulfillment of contracts of the entity;

                                   (5)  The amendment of the articles of incorporation or constituent
                    agreement of the entity with respect to the matters described in
                    paragraphs (1) through (4) above; or

               (6)  The matters covered by this Agreement.

The terms "control" or "controlled" as used  in Sections 2.1, 2.9, 8.1.3 and 8.1.7 means the ability
to direct, supervise or otherwise manage, shut down, interfere with or modify the capabilities of,
but does not include routine service maintenance, provisioning or service monitoring.

          8.1.5     "Controlled Unclassified Information" means unclassified information, the
export of which is controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), 22 C.F.R.
Chapter I, Subchapter M, or the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), 15 C.F.R., Chapter
VII, Subchapter C.

          8.1.6     "Domestic Telecommunications" means telecommunications from one
U.S. location to another U.S. location.

          8.1.7     "Domestic Telecommunications Infrastructure" means the transmission
and switching equipment (including software) that is used to provide Domestic
Telecommunications or physically located in the United States and any facility that is used to
control such equipment.

          8.1.8     "Electronic Communication" has the meaning given it in 18 U.S.C.  25
10(12).

          8.1.9     "Electronic Surveillance" means (i) the interception of wire, oral, or
electronic communications as defined in 18 U.S.C.  25 10(1), (2), (4) and (12), respectively,
and electronic surveillance as defined in 50 U.S.C.  1801(f); (ii) access to stored wire or
electronic communications, as referred to in 18 U.S.C.  2701 et seq.; (iii) acquisition of dialing
or signaling information through pen register or trap and trace devices or other devices or
features capable of acquiring such information pursuant to law as defined in 18 U.S.C.  3121 et
seq. and 50 U.S.C.  1841 et seq.; (iv) acquisition of location-related information concerning a
telecommunications service subscriber; (v) preservation of any of the above information pursuant
to 18 U.S.C.  2703(f); and (vi) including access to, or acquisition or interception of,
communications or information as described in (i) through (v) above and comparable State laws.

          8.1.10    "FCC" has the meaning given it in the Recitals. It includes any agency or
instrumentality of the United States to which, in the future, all or any part of the functions or
responsibilities of the FCC may be transferred or assigned.

          8.1.11    "Intercept" or "Intercepted" has the meaning defined in 18 U.S.C. 
2510(4).

          8.1.12    "Lawful U.S. Process" means Electronic Surveillance orders or
authorizations, and other orders, legal process, statutory authorizations, and certifications for
access to Subscriber Information.

          8.1.13    "Member" has the meaning given in Section 18-101(11) of Title 6 of the
Delaware Code.

          8.1.14    "Parent Corporation" means TNV (Netherlands) BV, as described in the
Recitals.

          8.1.15    "Parties" has the meaning given it in the Preamble.

          8.1.16    "Principal Managers" means those persons occupying positions of
director, president, senior vice president, secretary, treasurer and those persons occupying similar
positions.

          8.1.17    "Sensitive Information" means unclassified information regarding (i) the
persons or facilities that are the subjects of Lawful U.S. Process, (ii) the identity of the
government agency or agencies serving such Lawful U.S. Process, (iii) the location or identity of
the line, circuit, transmission path, or other facilities or equipment used to conduct Electronic
Surveillance, (iv) the means of carrying out Electronic Surveillance, (v) the type(s) of service,
telephone number(s), records, communications, or facilities subjected to Lawful U.S. Process,
and (vi) other unclassified information designated in writing by an authorized official of a
federal, state or local law enforcement agency or a U.S. intelligence agency as "Sensitive
Information."

          8.1.18    "Sensitive Network Monitoring Personnel" means personnel responsible
for performing network management, operations, maintenance, or security functions who have
regular access to facilities, systems, or equipment which enable monitoring of subscribers' wire
or electronic communications, including any such communications that are in electronic storage. 
This term excludes personnel who (i) perform outside plant operations and maintenance
functions, (ii) perform network-level monitoring without the responsibility to monitor the content
of a subscriber's communications, or (iii) monitor telemarketing calls by Company personnel or
customer-originated calls to the Company.

          8.1.19  "Subscriber Information" means information of the type referred to and
accessible subject to procedures specified in 18 U.S.C.  2703(c) or (d) or 18 U.S.C.  2709, or
other legal process established by state law.  Subscriber Information does not include the content
of any communication.

          8.1.20  "United States" means the United States of America including all of its
States, districts, territories, possessions, commonwealths, and the special maritime jurisdiction of
the United States.

          8.1.21 "U.S. Joint Venture Subscriber" means a subscriber, including an employee
or similar authorized user of the services provided to a subscriber, of the Parent Corporation or
any of its subsidiaries to the extent that such subscriber (i) is regularly provided services at a U.S.
location by the Parent Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, and (ii) uses such services at a U.S.
location.  A customer of a subscriber of the Parent Corporation shall not, by reason of that
relationship, be considered a U.S. Joint Venture Subscriber.  Neither the Company, nor the
subsidiaries of the Parent Corporation or the Company, shall be considered a subscriber of the
Parent Corporation.

          8.1.22  "Wire Communication" has the meaning given it in 18 U.S.C.  25 10(1).

This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the Parties, and their
respective successors and assigns.

This Agreement is executed on behalf of the Parties:

                              

                              VLT CO. LLC



Date:  October 1, 1999   By:       ____________________________________
                                   /s/                           
          
                              Rick D. Bailey

                              VIOLET LICENSE CO. LLC



Date:  October 1, 1999   By:       ____________________________________
                              /s/  
                              Rick D. Bailey

                              
                              TNV (NETHERLANDS) BV



Date:  October 1, 1999   By:       ____________________________________
                              /s/
                              James E. Graf II                              AT&T CORP.



Date:  October 1, 1999   By:       ____________________________________
                              /s/
                              Mary Jane McKeever
                              Vice President


                              BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS plc



Date:  October 1, 1999   By:       ____________________________________
                              /s/
                              James E. Graf II
                              President, BT North America Inc.


                              THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT
                               OF DEFENSE


Date:  October 7, 1999   By:       ____________________________________
                              /s/
                              Arthur Money
                              Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command,
                              Control, Communications and Intelligence

                              THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF
                              INVESTIGATION

Date:  October 7, 1999   By:       __________________________________
                              /s/
                              Larry R. Parkinson
                              






                              THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT
                              OF JUSTICE



Date:  October 7, 1999   By:       _____________________________
                              /s/
                              Eric Holder Jr.                           EXHIBIT A
                   CONDITION TO FCC LICENSES
                                
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, that the authorization and the license related thereto are subject  
to compliance with the provisions of the Agreement attached hereto between AT&T Corp.,
British Telecommunications PLC, TNV (NETHERLANDS) BV, VLT CO. LLC, and Violet
License Co. LLC on the one hand and the Department of Defense (the "DoD"), Department of
Justice (the "DoJ") and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (the "FBI") on the other, dated
October 7, 1999, which Agreement is designed to address national security, law enforcement,
and public safety concerns of the DoD, DoJ and the FBI regarding the licenses granted herein. 
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to limit any obligation imposed by Federal law or
regulation including, but not limited to, 47 U.S.C.  222(a) and (c)(1) and the FCC's
implementing regulations.     
SEPARATE STATEMENT OF COMMISSIONER HAROLD FURCHTGOTT-ROTH
                           
  Re: AT&T Corp., British Telecommunications, plc, VLT Co. L.L.C., Violet License Co.
  LLC, and TNV [Bahamas] Limited Applications for Grant of Section 214 Authority,
  Modification of Authorizations and Assignment of Licenses in Connection with the
  Proposed Joint Venture Between AT&T Corp. and British Telecommunications, plc, IB
  Docket No. 98-212.  
     
     I wholeheartedly endorse the Commission's ultimate decision to permit the
  AT&T/BT joint venture to go forward.  It has been almost a year since the parties filed
  their applications, and our regulatory approval was long overdue.  Nonetheless, I write
  separately to express my continuing concern about the nature of the Commission's
  approach to mergers, and now sadly, joint ventures as well.  
     
  I.   The Commission's License Transfer Review Process
  
     As detailed elsewhere, I believe the Commission's license transfer review
  process is broken.  With each transaction, the dangerous legacy of our policies
  becomes more clearly visible:
  
     often our "conditions" are not even remotely tethered to our statutory authority to
     review license transfers; 
  
     there is no apparent method to the madness by which some transfers receive
     heightened scrutiny, while others do not;  
  
     at times the Bureau reviews transactions, other times the full Commission acts; 
  
     the Commission continues to assert jurisdiction over submarine cable license transfers
     that would be more properly left to the Executive Branch; and  
  
     the Commission continues to characterize the arm twisting associated with these
     transactions as part of some mythical voluntary process.
  
  
       Today's decision unfortunately adds a few more straws to the strained camel's
  back.  
  
       Once again the Commission has strayed from the issues raised by the actual
  transfer of these licenses.  The Commission simply does not possess statutory authority
  under the Communications Act to review, writ large, the joint venture of AT&T and
  BT.  Rather, "we are required to determine whether the transfer of station licenses
  serves the public interest, convenience and necessity and whether the transfer of
  authorizations for international resale serves the public convenience and necessity."  
  Nothing more is desirable or permissible.  Issues unrelated to the transfer itself such as
  the API calls and programs described in this Order are simply, in my view, beyond the
  scope of our review.  
  
       I also continue to be concerned that much of our review process is duplicative
  of the work of the Justice Department's Antitrust Division.  The experience and
  expertise of the Justice Department are best suited to addressing any antitrust issues
  that may arise in these transactions.  Moreover, DOJ uniformly enforces the antitrust
  laws across all sectors of the economy.  Ultimately, I fear that our "heightened"
  antitrust review may actually penalize the communications industry based purely on
  their unfortunate fate of being subject to our license transfer jurisdiction.  
  
       It also seems, at best, odd that the agency must condition a license transfer on
  compliance with our existing rules   as if they were somehow discretionary for other
  licensees.  For example, in its Order the Commission notes that: "Consistent with our
  rules, VLT and TLTD must file quarterly reports on provisioning and maintenance
  procured from BT directly or indirectly, including through Concert."  This is a
  reasonable enough conclusion, and well within our legitimate authority to review
  transactions to ensure compliance with our rules.  Such authority justifiably extends
  to clarifying whether our rules apply in the given circumstances of a transaction. 
  However, today's Order does not stop there.   Instead the Order adds a curious
  conclusion:  "We nonetheless adopt AT&T/BTs' voluntary commitment to do so as a
  condition of this Order."  Our rules are binding on all licensees with equal force.   Yet
  the Commission's transfer review process has now elevated the sanctity of a voluntary
  commitment above the requirements of our rules   even when each leads to an
  identical result. This process seems to place a discriminatory and heightened burden
  on AT&T/BT.  This is particularly disconcerting when the "voluntary commitment" is
  potentially insulated from judicial review. 
       
       Once again, I urge my fellow Commissioners to back away from the use of
  specific review proceedings to achieve general public policy goals.  We have extensive
  authority to regulate telecommunications, there is no basis or need to expand that
  authority by using the ad hoc license transfer process to achieve our goals through the
  back door.  
       
  II.  The Role of Other Governmental Agencies
       
       To the Commission's credit, much of the delay involved in reaching today's
  decision was directly attributable to negotiations between the private parties (AT&T,
  BT, TNV, VLT and Violet) and the Department of Defense, the Department of Justice
  and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.   Today's decision incorporates by reference
  the agreement between the private parties and these government agencies.  A number
  of elements of this process are troubling.  
       
       First, under Section 214(b), the Commission is instructed to notify "the
  Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State (with respect to such applications involving
  service to foreign points) and the Governor of each State in which such line is
  proposed to be. . . acquired. . . with the right of those notified to be heard. . . . "  Thus
  the Commission must take into account the views of these parties in assessing any
  proposed licensing action.  This approach is consistent with the GATS, which provides
  for national security exceptions under Articles XIV bis.  Similarly, in our Foreign
  Participation Order we assured the parties that we would "consider any such legitimate
  concerns [regarding national security or law enforcement] as we undertake our own
  independent analyses of whether grant of a particular authorization is in the public
  interest."   Thus our sole obligation is to consider these parties' input in our
  independent assessment of the transfer.  
       
       Yet here we have gone far beyond that.  While we do have comments from these
  parties on file, we delayed today's Order as we awaited the conclusion of private
  negotiations between the parties and these governmental agencies.  Their ultimate
  agreement has now been incorporated into our Order.  I am concerned that other
  federal agencies not add insult to the injury that our current "review" process imposes
  on licensees.  The Commission's sanctioning of this agreement with other agencies
  creates another set of "voluntary" conditions that licensees have little choice but to
  accept, if they wish to transfer their licenses in any reasonable period of time.  As I
  have noted elsewhere, the involuntary nature of these obligations is compounded by the
  practical inability of the parties to obtain meaningful judicial review of our
  determinations in a timeframe that preserves the viability of the underlying
  transaction.  These are not voluntary conditions, they are the Commission's (and now
  other government agencies') price for doing business through license modifications. 
  Such a process vastly exceeds the role of these other agencies as envisioned by Section
  214.  
       
       Second, I am disturbed by the seeming arbitrariness of this side agreement
  between the private parties and the Department of Defense, the Department of Justice
  and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.   While I do not question the underlying
  merits of the side agreement   they may well be necessary and wholly justified   it
  seems difficult to tie these requirements to the license transfers at issue here.  Most
  significantly, why is this joint venture singled out for these requirements?  Would it not
  be equally desirable to have all similarly situated carriers subject to these mandates? 
  Does not this process elevate the relative happenstance of this joint venture into the
  sole variable that determines which carriers are subject to these significant law
  enforcement and security obligations set forth in the agreement?  In other words, it
  seems unfair that a large international carrier -- that built its business through means
  other than mergers or joint ventures involving FCC licenses --  would never face these
  requirements.  This side agreement ultimately penalizes a business development plan.  
       
       The Order seems to recognize this peril:  
       
            We note that the Agreement reflects a unique situation, and contains certain
       provisions that, if broadly applied, would have significant consequences for the
       telecommunications industry.  These provisions, if viewed as precedent for
       other service providers and potential investors, would warrant further inquiry
       on our part.  Therefore, this agreement does not establish precedent for future
       cases.
        
            
  The Order does not identify what is "unique" about this "situation," except that
  AT&T and BT had the misfortune to have a joint venture pending at this agency in late
  1999.   But the general observation of the passage is, at best, distressing.  The majority
  opinion essentially concedes that the application of the terms of the "voluntary
  agreement" to the industry as a whole may have significant adverse consequences that
  would warrant our review.  We cannot have it both ways   we use our authority to
  impose these onerous obligations, while distancing ourselves from the outcome.  
  
       In the end, if the parties want to negotiate a true voluntary agreement, they can
  do so on their own time without the cloud of our review process hanging over their
  heads.  Indeed, I would applaud such a voluntary industry-wide effort to address
  national security and law enforcement issues without Commission involvement.  The
  troubling part of this "deal" is not the substance, but the Commission's role in
  sanctioning it.  Despite the Order's caveats, the Commission's actions speak louder
  than its words.  The agency has held up this transaction pending the agreement and
  incorporated its terms without so much as a change in punctuation.      
       
       Third, I note that our statutory notice obligation does not run to all of the
  governmental parties to this agreement   but only to the Secretary of Defense.  Thus, it
  seems possible, if not likely, that the other governmental parties to whom notice is
  required (the Governors and the State Department) will soon understand that our
  merger review process is an opportunity for them to achieve their policy wish lists
  through "voluntary agreements" similar to the one we sanction here.  Which
  Executive Branch objections or policy concerns would form the basis for a decision to
  delay our approval?  Which governmental entities warrant such deference and which
  do not?  Is there any limit on the germaneness of such side agreements?  Could a state
  governor reach a voluntary agreement with a joint venture party to construct a new
  cable landing station in her state in exchange for the removal of her objections to the
  transfer?  Would we delay the transaction pending such an agreement?  My concern is
  that there seems to be no legally compelling way to distinguish the wishful Governor
  from the governmental parties in this case.  
       
       Finally, as I have discussed elsewhere, this agency is on dangerous ground
  when it purports not only to enforce our decision, but also potentially to play a role in
  the enforcement of other agency's regulatory determinations. Here the side agreement
  calls for the parties to seek judicial enforcement of the agreement or "(1) the DOJ, the
  FBI or the DOD may bring an action for relief (including equitable relief) before the
  FCC, and (2) the Affiliates and the Company may petition the FCC for a declaratory
  ruling with respect to the Affiliates' or the Company's obligations under this
  agreement."  As I stated in AT&T/TCI, "we have no jurisdiction to enforce rules not
  promulgated under the Communications Act. . . and we cannot and should not do the
  enforcement work of others."  Ultimately, this agency runs far afield when it
  conditions a license transfer on compliance with another's agency's agreement,
  putting ourselves in the position of potential enforcer of non-FCC requirements. 
  Instead of this approach, it would seem far more manageable if we were to note in our
  decision that the initial objections of these other governmental parties had been
  withdrawn based on a private side agreement.  It seems unnecessary to incorporate that
  agreement into our approval or to condition the license on compliance with the third
  party contract.  Only when the Commission itself passed on these national security
  issues would any type of condition be appropriate.  
       
                           *****
       
       I understand and truly believe that the Commission and the other government
  agencies involved act on these transactions based on a sincere desire to serve the public
  interest.  Many of the ends achieved by merger conditions and voluntary agreements
  are worthwhile.  But the ease and largely standardless nature of the current license
  transfer process simply cannot be an appropriate vehicle.  It denies parties their rights
  to judicial review; hides the ball from the public during the "negotiations" process;
  applies these "good" rules to only certain companies; subverts the rulemaking process
  by removing obligations from the code and placing them in a bevy of adjudicatory
  determinations; delays business transactions; and consumes immense resources from
  all parties.  As my parents used to say: "There are no shortcuts in life."  We all
  undermine the process and ultimately many of our common goals when we attempt to
  achieve our goals via shortcuts.  I urge other agencies and my colleagues to join me in
  taking the necessarily more difficult and longer path to achieving these goals.    
  
  
