                    





                         NOTICE


    *********************************************************    

       

                         NOTICE


   *********************************************************


This document was originally prepared in Word Perfect.  

If the original document contained--

                    *  Footnotes
                    *  Boldface & Italics

--this information  is missing in this version

The document format (spacing, margins, tabs, etc.) is changed
too.

If you need the complete document, download the Word Perfect
version.

For information about downloading documents (FTP) see file
 how2ftp.

File  how2ftp (.txt & .wp) is in directory
/pub/Bureaus/Miscellaneous/Public_Notices/

*****************************************************************
********
$//TRANSMITTED FOR FCC RECORD ONLY//$

$//R&O, Streamlining 214 Authorization Process, FCC 96-79//$
$/47 C.F.R.  1.767 Cable Landing Licenses/$
$/47 C.F.R. 61 Tariffs/$

                                Before the
                     FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FCC-96-79
                          Washington, D.C. 20554

In the Matter of                   )
                              )         
Streamlining the International     )         IB  Docket No. 95-118
Section 214 Authorization Process and   ) 
Tariff Requirements             )

                             REPORT AND ORDER

     Adopted: February 29, 1996 Released: March 13, 1996

By the Commission: 

                             TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                  Paragraph
                                                                    Numbers
                                     
I. INTRODUCTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1-2

II. STREAMLINING INTERNATIONAL SECTION 214 AUTHORIZATIONS. . 3-62
1. Facilities-based carriers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-20
2. Resellers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21-27
3. Resale of private lines for switched services . . . . . .28-35
4. Non-common carrier satellite and cable systems. . . . . .36-39
5. Conveyance of cable capacity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40-45
6. Discontinuances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46-50
7. Cable landing license applications. . . . . . . . . . . .51-56
8. Contents of international Section 214 applications. . . .57-60
9. Conditions of international Section 214 authorizations. .61-63

III. PETITIONS TO DENY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64-70

IV. FORM OF INTERNATIONAL SECTION 214 APPLICATIONS . . . . .71-76

V. TARIFFING REQUIREMENTS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .77-84

VI. FORBEARANCE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85-86

VII. MISCELLANEOUS ISSUES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87-95
1. Growth-based accounting rates . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87-90
2. Correspondent Agreements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .91-92
3. "Fresh-look" for long-term service arrangements . . . . .93-95

VIII. CONCLUSION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96

IX. PROCEDURAL MATTERS; ORDERING CLAUSES . . . . . . . . . 97-101

APPENDIX A - Final Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

APPENDIX B - Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis . . . . . . . 


                              I. INTRODUCTION

     1.   On July 17, 1995, we proposed to streamline the international Section 214
authorization process and related regulatory procedures for international carriers.  Many
proposals contained in the Notice were developed from recommendations made by the public
and by industry representatives at roundtable discussions with the International Bureau.   
This Order adopts the recommendations proposed in the Notice subject to modifications
discussed below.  Implementation of these proposals will benefit U.S. consumers because
they eliminate unnecessary regulatory delay and enhance the competitiveness of U.S. service
providers in the world market.  

     2.    The new regulations adopted by this Order will facilitate entrance into the
international telecommunications market and expansion of international services.  Under the
new rules, we will: (1) issue global international Section 214 authorizations to facilities-based
carriers for the provision of international services, (2) reduce paperwork obligations, 
(3) streamline our tariff requirements on non-dominant international carriers, and (4) ensure
that essential information is readily available to all carriers and users.  Implementation of
these proposals will significantly improve processing and operational efficiencies.  Moreover,
these streamlining proposals further our mandate under the recent Telecommunications Act of
1996 ("Telecom Act") to eliminate unnecessary government regulation of the
telecommunications industry.  In the near future, we will be considering what further
deregulatory steps we can take with our new authority to further reduce or eliminate
unnecessary regulations and thereby increase competition in the marketplace.  We invite the
public to suggest more areas in which we may minimize or forbear from existing regulation. 
          
        II. STREAMLINING INTERNATIONAL SECTION 214 AUTHORIZATIONS 

                      1.  Facilities-based carriers 

(a)  The Notice

     3.   In our Notice, we proposed to amend Sections 63.01 and 63.15 of our Rules to
enable U.S. facilities-based carriers regulated as non-dominant to obtain a global, rather than
a country-specific, Section 214 authorization.  Global authorizations would exclude certain
countries that are specified in a Commission published "exclusion" list.  This exclusion list
may change from time to time as circumstances dictate.  We proposed to grant broad
authority for carriers to use half-circuits on all previously and subsequently authorized U.S.
common carrier and non-common carrier facilities and any necessary foreign connecting
facilities.  We proposed to make applications for this type of authority eligible in most
instances for our streamlined processing procedures.  We also proposed to amend Section
63.05 of our Rules to remove the requirement that international common carriers commence
operations within a specified period of time from the Section 214 authorization date.

     4.   We are mindful of our statutory obligations under the Communications Act of
1934 to guard against abuses of market power in situations where effective competition does
not yet exist.  We meet these obligations through our Section 214 authorization process and
apply dominant carrier and other safeguards where circumstances warrant.  In addition, we
stated that the rules proposed in the Notice, which eliminate many filing and prior
authorization requirements, should be read in conjunction with the Circuit Status Order. 
Pursuant to the rules adopted in the Circuit Status Order, the Commission will continue to
collect and make public information from carriers identifying the countries that international
carriers actually are serving through circuit status and addition reports.  This information aids
us in our efforts to foster a more open and competitive international telecommunications
market.    

(b)   Positions of the Parties

      5.    Support for a global Section 214 authorization was very favorable.  Some
commenters propose a few modifications to the mechanics of its application.  Several
commenters urge us to require specific Section 214 applications from a carrier affiliated with
a foreign carrier that has market power in its home country when the applicant intends to
provide service between the United States and that country.  They also suggest that the
unopposed applications of U.S. carriers with foreign affiliates that do not possess market
power be granted automatically under the proposed streamlined processing procedures.  

      6.    AT&T requests that we grant global Section 214 authority to all U.S.-based
carriers without foreign affiliations, whether or not they are regulated as dominant.  AT&T
argues that there is no basis to treat dominant and non-dominant unaffiliated U.S. carriers
differently under Section 214.  AT&T states that, in the context of international facilities
authorization, the conduct that dominant classification was meant to deter is more effectively
handled through processes other than maintaining more burdensome Section 214 filing
requirements for dominant unaffiliated U.S. carriers.  In addition, AT&T states that the
rationale for adopting certain streamlining proposals is equally applicable to dominant,
unaffiliated U.S. carriers as to non-dominant U.S. carriers.  MCI opposes AT&T's request
stating that, with the array of economic and competitive advantages that are the product of
AT&T's monopoly heritage, it is essential that the Commission continue to impose conditions
on AT&T that are different from those imposed on non-dominant carriers in order to detect
and prevent discriminatory and unlawful practices.
      
      7.    Sprint and MCI recommend that we modify the proposed rule on global
Section 214 authorizations to specify that a dominant U.S. facilities-based carrier that has
entered into a significant business relationship (e.g., a co-marketing or joint venture
arrangement) with a dominant foreign carrier should not be granted global Section 214
authority to that foreign carrier's home market, but must await specific approval. 

      8.    There are several other proposed modifications.  MCI suggests that when an
application is uncontested but requires further review, the International Bureau should inform
the applicant of the delay by both correspondence and public notice and identify the staff
person in charge of the review and the target date for completion of the review.  ACTA urges
the Commission to include countries on the exclusion list only in the most imperative of
circumstances.  WorldCom encourages us to expand our grant of global Section 214
authorizations to include the use of non-U.S. separate satellite systems, including, but not
limited to, the Mexican/Solidaridad system, the Canadian ANIK system and various Russian
satellite systems.  WorldCom asserts that there is no reason to exclude these widely used non-
U.S. satellite systems from a global Section 214 authorization and that the Commission can
monitor use of these satellite systems through the Section 43.82 circuit status reports. 
AmericaTel states that we should define "affiliation" with a foreign carrier for purposes of
Section 214 authorizations based on control of that carrier.  Finally, ACC supports the
elimination of the requirement in Section 63.05 of our Rules that common carriers commence
operations within a specified time after obtaining Section 214 authority.  ACC concurs with
our reasoning in the Notice that obtaining operating agreements from foreign carriers takes
time and can delay initiation of service to particular countries.  

(c)   Discussion

      9.    We find that the public interest, convenience and necessity would be served by
adopting, with some modifications, our proposed rules for global Section 214 authorizations
for facilities-based carriers.  Such global authorizations will enable carriers to enter new
markets rapidly and use new facilities without the delays and costs associated with filing
separate Section 214 applications for each new market or facility.  These broader 
authorizations also will lessen the administrative burdens on applicants and Commission staff. 
WorldCom notes that to date it has filed over 500 Section 214 authorizations, but under the
proposed new rules, it would require only one global Section 214 authorization and a handful
of specialized authorizations.  The benefits to industry and government in such reductions
will be substantial. 

      10.   We note that the Telecom Act, states that the Commission "shall permit any
common carrier to be exempt from the requirements of Section 214 of the Communications
Act of 1934 for the extension of any line."  We do not view this provision as applicable to 
our authority to require common carriers to obtain Section 214 authority to acquire, operate,
or resell facilities or services to serve individual countries.  When we grant a carrier initial
authority to acquire and operate facilities to a particular country, we do not grant that carrier
authority for an "extension of lines" within the meaning of Section 214 of the
Communications Act and Section 402(b)(2) of the Telecom Act, but instead grant that carrier
authority to acquire and operate new lines to a particular geographic market.  To the extent
there are any staff level decisions discussing extension of lines that could be interpreted as
inconsistent with this view, they do not represent the views of the Commission.  This leaves
the necessity and the benefits of streamlining Section 214 authorizations intact. 

      11.   Some modifications to our proposed rules are appropriate.  First, the public
interest would be served by expanding the types of global Section 214 applications eligible
for streamlined processing to include those filed by U.S. carriers with foreign affiliations, as
defined below, so long as the applications are tailored such that they do not request authority
for service on routes where applicants have affiliations with foreign carriers and we have not
made a determination that the affiliate lacks market power in the destination market. This
expansion of streamlined processing will lessen the administrative burden on Commission
staff.  More importantly, this would make it possible for these foreign-affiliated carriers to
enter the U.S. market faster, which would be in harmony with our recently completed Foreign
Carrier Entry Order.  In that Order, we defined affiliation as an ownership interest of
greater than 25 percent, or a controlling interest at any level, by a U.S. carrier in a foreign
carrier, or by a foreign carrier in a U.S. carrier.  We found that it would be in the public
interest to allow a foreign-affiliated carrier routine access to the U.S. international services
market on routes where the foreign carrier does not have market power.  We reached this
conclusion after determining that, in conducting the Section 214 public interest analysis of an
application by a foreign-affiliated carrier, we need only assess whether U.S. carriers have
effective competitive opportunities to compete in a particular market if that carrier is applying
for authority to serve a market where its foreign carrier affiliate has market power.  We stated
that foreign carriers that do not have market power lack the ability to discriminate against
unaffiliated U.S. carriers.   

      12.   Accordingly, we find here that a foreign-affiliated U.S. carrier applying for a
global Section 214 authorization should be treated no differently than a U.S. carrier without
foreign affiliations to the extent the affiliated carrier is seeking authority to serve routes where
it is not affiliated with a foreign carrier with market power.  We believe the public interest
would be served by affording streamlined processing to that carrier's application.  These
applications should be specifically tailored, however, to ask for limited global authority to
provide service to points where either the carrier does not have affiliations, or we have
previously determined that its affiliate does not possess market power in that destination
market.  If a U.S. carrier desires to serve a market where it has an affiliation with a foreign
carrier, and we have yet to determine whether that foreign carrier possesses market power
there, then the U.S. carrier should file a separate application to serve that destination market. 
This will give us the opportunity to determine whether we need to conduct an effective
competitive opportunities analysis and whether specific safeguards are necessary to prevent
the foreign carrier from discriminating against competing U.S. carriers on that route. 
      
      13.   We also adopt AT&T's proposal that U.S. carriers regulated as dominant for
reasons other than having foreign affiliations be allowed global Section 214 authority.  We
find that in today's competitive and regulatory environment, there is no longer a need to
exclude dominant carriers without foreign affiliations from enjoying the benefits of a global
Section 214 authorization.  We regulate U.S. carriers as dominant in order to help deter
abuses of market power, such as acts of market exclusion, predatory pricing, unreasonable
discrimination, and unreasonable termination or reduction of service to customers.  As part of
our international dominant carrier safeguards, we have required that dominant carriers obtain
specific international Section 214 authority prior to acquiring and operating any circuits to
provide international service on any route.  This safeguard helps us monitor the facilities and
capacity used by a dominant carrier in order to ensure that the carrier does not monopolize
service on a particular route.  This safeguard also helps limit the ability of a dominant rate-
base carrier to overbuild its facilities at ratepayers expense in order to enlarge its earnings. 
The implementation of price cap regulation, however, has diminished the incentive for
dominant carriers subject to price cap regulation to invest in facilities for which they have no
immediate need because the carriers do not add the cost of the facilities to their rate base.
And, with the large growth and variety of available facilities for international service, the
opportunity to monopolize facilities on a route has nearly vanished.  These regulatory and
market changes have reduced the need to use the Section 214 authorization process to guard
against abuses of a dominant carrier's market power.  We believe the examination of
accounting rate and service agreements between a carrier and its correspondent is a much
better tool for preventing market exclusion.  We also believe there are better methods of
detecting possible unlawful exploitation of U.S. domestic bottleneck facilities, such as the
complaint process.  We note that U.S. carriers, currently found dominant for reasons other
than having foreign affiliations or alliances, will still be subject to the restrictions on
obtaining global Section 214 authority if they have affiliations with foreign carriers for which
we have yet to make a market power determination. 
      
      14.   We accordingly adopt the following steps for the application and processing of
global Section 214 authority for facilities-based carriers.  We amend Section 63.01 to make it
applicable only to domestic authorizations, create a new Section 63.18 for international
Section 214 authorizations, and revise Section 63.15 to facilitate applications for broad
international Section 214 authority.  Both new carrier applicants, as well as any carriers
operating under international Section 214 authority granted prior to this rulemaking, may
obtain global Section 214 authority by submitting a new Section 214 application to operate as
a facilities-based carrier pursuant to terms and conditions of Section 63.18(e)(1).  Subject to
the exceptions outlined below, these applications will be processed using the same
streamlined procedures used for resale applications.  That is, once we have reviewed the
applications to determine eligibility for streamlined processing, we will place them on public
notice as accepted for filing, and state whether they will be streamlined or not.  Petitions to
deny streamlined applications must be filed within 21 days.  If streamlined applications are
unopposed, they will be deemed granted 35 days after the date of the initial public notice of
acceptance for filing, and the applicants may commence operations on the 36th day.  Shortly
after the streamlined application has been granted, we will issue a second public notice that
will be published in the FCC Record and will serve as the applicants' Section 214
authorization.  The second public notice will list the applications granted and restrictions, if
any, on providing service to particular countries and on the use of certain facilities.  The
restrictions listed will consist of both general restrictions that apply to all carriers receiving
global Section 214 authority, as well as specific restrictions to particular carriers, such as
those with affiliations in destination markets.  It also will state that, as a condition of the
Section 214 authorization, the carrier will be subject to any future modifications made to the
exclusion list described below.  The notice also will state that, in cases where a carrier
becomes affiliated with a foreign carrier after authorization is granted, it must notify the
International Bureau promptly of the details of every such affiliation, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 63.11.  The carrier would then be subject to possible reclassification as
a dominant carrier on an affiliated route pursuant to the provisions of Section 63.10.
      
      15.   Applications that are contested or require the International Bureau either to
conduct an effective competitive opportunities analysis or make a determination as to the
degree of market power possessed by a foreign carrier affiliate will not be eligible for
streamlined processing.  If we remove an application from streamlined processing, after
originally giving public notice that it will be streamlined, the International Bureau will issue a
public notice stating the change in processing status, and inform the applicant by sending it a
copy of the public notice and by identifying the name of a staff contact person and date for a
status conference.  This notification will be done within 28 days from the date of the initial
public notice listing the application as being subject to streamlined processing (i.e., one week
after the due date for petitions to deny).  Non-streamlined applications will be acted upon by
written order, instead of public notice.

      16.   Under these global Section 214 authorizations, authority will be given to use
half-circuits on all U.S. common carrier and non-common carrier facilities previously and
subsequently authorized by the Commission and on any necessary foreign connecting
facilities.  This includes both common carrier and non-common carrier submarine cables
landing in the United States, INTELSAT satellites, U.S. separate system satellites and the
U.S. earth stations licensed by the Commission to communicate with these satellites.  If an
applicant requests to use facilities not yet authorized then the applicant will have to file a
separate Section 214 application.  For instance, we still require that proposed owners of new
common carrier submarine cable systems obtain separate Section 214 authority to construct
and operate the cable.  

      17.   The International Bureau will maintain an exclusion list that identifies any
restrictions on providing service to particular countries or using particular facilities, and
whether separate Section 214 authority is needed for these countries and/or facilities.  The
International Bureau will include the exclusion list as part of each public notice listing
granted streamlined applications, or in the case of non-streamlined grants, in the granting
order.  A copy will be maintained in the International Bureau's Reference Center.  The
general exclusion list included with the most recent public notice listing streamline granted
applications will apply to all carriers that have previously received global Section 214
authority under this rule, whether by streamlined grant or specific written order.

      18.   For situations where the public interest requires us to amend the exclusion list
either to remove or impose restrictions on service to a particular country or use of specific
facilities previously permitted under an existing global Section 214 authorization, we will first
issue a public notice giving affected parties opportunity for comment and hearing on the
proposed changes.  We will then release an order amending our exclusion list.  In response to
ACTA, we envision such exclusions only taking place in the most imperative of
circumstances.  If the President issues an Executive Order to prohibit or restrict service to a
particular country or use of specific facilities, however, we will amend our exclusion list and
issue a public notice to that effect without opportunity for comment or hearing.  In all such
circumstances, carriers will be prohibited from providing service to countries or using
facilities appearing on the exclusion list. 
      
      19.   We do not adopt at this time WorldCom's proposal to include the use of non-
U.S. licensed satellite systems, including affiliates of INTELSAT and Inmarsat, in this global
authorization.  The use of these systems is the subject of another proceeding.  If at a future
date we determine the routine authorization of particular non-U.S. satellite systems is in the
public interest, we will remove them from the exclusion list. 

      20.   We also amend Section 63.05 which requires carriers to commence operation
within a specified time after the Section 214 authorization date.  International carriers need to
obtain operating agreements from foreign carriers.  Obtaining such agreements may be
delayed by events outside U.S. carriers' control.  Consequently, we amend Section 63.05 so
that international common carriers need not commence providing service within a specified
time after the Section 214 authorization date.  Carriers' traffic reports will advise the
Commission of the year that carriers actually initiate service to individual countries. 
Consolidated traffic reports will relate such information annually to industry. 

                              2.   Resellers

(a)   The Notice
      
      21.   In the Notice, we proposed to expand the authority of resale carriers. 
Currently, Section 63.01(k)(6)(ii) requires applicants that propose to provide service through
the resale of international switched or private line services of another U.S. carrier to specify
the names of the U.S. carriers and their specific tariffs to be resold.  Consequently, when
resellers want to resell services of carriers that are not listed in their initial Section 214
applications, resellers file new Section 214 applications to obtain the requisite authority.  In
the Notice, we proposed to enable resellers to provide international resale services via any
authorized U.S. carrier, except those affiliated with the reseller.  Under the proposal,
applicants would obtain an initial Section 214 authorization for resale services and, then,
would be able to add new unaffiliated underlying carriers without further Section 214
authority.  We tentatively concluded that our prior authorization requirement was no longer
needed because we receive sufficient information regarding resellers' activities from Section
43.82 circuit addition reports and from Section 43.61 traffic reports.

(b)   Positions of the Parties

      22.   No party opposes our proposal or our rationale.  Three commenters, however,
suggest modifications to our proposal.  TTH recommends that the Commission expand the
category of carriers that a reseller may use under a blanket Section 214 authorization to
include non-dominant, U.S. facilities-based carriers affiliated with the reseller.

      23.   MFSI proposes that the Commission permit non-dominant, U.S. facilities-based
carriers to provide service in correspondence with affiliated foreign resellers that lack market
power, subject to applicable tariff and contract filing requirements and common carrier non-
discrimination obligations.  MFSI states that, under the Commission's current policy, a U.S.
carrier (dominant or non-dominant) that seeks to connect a U.S. half-circuit (owned,
indefeasible right-of-user (IRU), or leased) with a leased, foreign private line half-circuit to
provide a switched basic service must obtain country-by-country Section 214 authority and
make an "equivalency showing."  MFSI states that this advances the interests of the largest
carriers by reducing the level of effective competition in the marketplace without any
countervailing public benefits.  Similarly, SPPT suggests streamlined processing for U.S. non-
dominant carrier applicants that propose to use their own U.S. half-circuits in connection with
leased foreign half-circuits to provide service between the United States and the foreign
country where the leased half-circuits terminate.  
              
(c)   Discussion

      24.   We find that the public interest would be served by adopting our proposed rule,
as modified below, to allow resellers to provide international resale of switched or private line
services via any authorized carrier, except U.S. facilities-based affiliates that are regulated as
dominant on routes the carrier seeks to serve.  We agree with TTH that applicants that
propose to resell services of an affiliated U.S. facilities-based carrier on routes where the
affiliate is regulated as non-dominant do not raise discrimination or other anticompetitive
concerns and can be subject to streamlined procedures.  First, if we have already determined
that a carrier is non-dominant on a route, then by definition we have found that carrier to lack
sufficient market power to engage in anticompetitive conduct.  Second, a reseller, whether
affiliated with the underlying carrier or not, is purchasing services pursuant to a tariff or
contract filed with the Commission, which means that any competing reseller may purchase
the affiliated facilities-based carrier's services on the same terms and conditions as the
affiliated reseller.  Last, the rule as originally proposed would create an inconsistency with
another change we are making because the affiliated non-dominant facilities-based carrier
would receive streamlined processing of its Section 214 application, but the affiliated reseller
would be ineligible for streamlined processing. 

      25.   Accordingly, we here amend existing Section 214 resale authorizations to allow
carriers to resell international switched or private line services via any authorized carrier,
except U.S. facilities-based affiliates that are regulated as dominant on routes the reseller
seeks to serve.  Thus, existing resellers no longer need to obtain additional authorizations to
resell services of carriers not identified in their initial authorization.  This change also will
apply to all future Section 214 resale authorizations we issue.  Specific Section 214 authority
is needed, however, to resell an affiliated dominant carriers' services. In particular, if a
reseller desires to resell service of an affiliated underlying carrier that is regulated as
dominant on some routes and not on others, the reseller is now authorized to resell that
carrier's services on those routes on which the underlying carrier is non-dominant.  The
reseller should file a separate Section 214 application, however, to provide resale service on
routes where the underlying carrier is deemed dominant.  In addition, we will not streamline
process any application for Section 214 resale authority if the applicant has an affiliation with
a foreign carrier in a destination market, and we have yet to make a determination whether
that foreign carrier possesses market power in that market. 

      26.   This flexible approach will give resellers a greater selection of underlying
carriers which will stimulate more competition in price and quality.  Also, resellers will be
able to reduce their operating costs by using the most efficient resale arrangements available. 
Reducing the administrative burdens of filing supplemental applications and regulatory time
delays in implementing service should facilitate carriers' ability to provide competitive
international services at lower prices. 

      27.   We addressed MFSI's and SPPT's concerns in our Foreign Carrier Entry
Order where we adopted their proposals in part.  In that Order, we clarified that a carrier will
be considered facilities-based if it holds an ownership, indefeasible-right-of-user or leasehold
interest in an international facility, regardless of whether the underlying facility is a common
or non-common carrier submarine cable, or an INTELSAT or separate satellite system.  We
stated that our definition of a facilities-based carrier focuses solely on the U.S. half-circuit. 
We do not consider the nature of a U.S. carrier's interest, if any, in the corresponding foreign
half-circuit.  We also stated that we would allow a U.S. facilities-based carrier to provide
switched services over its private lines without a demonstration of equivalency, subject to two
exceptions.  First, the U.S. carrier may not correspond with a carrier that directly or indirectly
owns the foreign half-circuit in a market that we have not found to offer equivalent resale
opportunities.  Second, the switched traffic carried over facilities-based private lines may only
be interconnected to the public switched network on one end.  Where the U.S. carrier
connects its facilities-based private line half-circuit with a foreign half-circuit in
correspondence with a foreign carrier that owns the underlying half-circuit, we will require
that it obtain additional Section 214 authority and demonstrate that equivalency exists. 
Likewise, where a U.S. carrier seeks to interconnect its facilities-based private line to the
public switched network on both ends, we will also require that it obtain additional Section
214 authority and demonstrate equivalency.
                  3.   Resale of private lines for switched services

(a)   The Notice

      28.   In the Notice, we proposed to allow private line resale carriers to resell
switched services via interconnected private lines to all countries that the Commission
designated as offering equivalent resale opportunities to U.S. carriers.  Under the proposal,
carriers would need only obtain an initial Section 214 authorization to resell interconnected
private lines to provide switched service.  This authorization would cover all countries that
are designated equivalent at the time the application is granted and extend automatically to
countries later found to be equivalent.  We proposed two exceptions: (1) where the U.S.
carrier has an affiliation with the U.S. facilities-based carrier whose international private line
services it desires to resell (either directly or indirectly through the resale of another reseller's
services) and (2) where the carrier seeks authority to resell international private line services
to a country in which the foreign carrier with which it has an affiliation owns or controls
telecommunications facilities.  When these exceptions pertain, applications would be acted
upon only by formal written order. 

(b)   Positions of the Parties      

      29.   All of those commenting support authorizing private line resellers to resell 
interconnected private line service to provide switched services to any country deemed
equivalent.  AT&T and Sprint, however, propose some modifications.  AT&T suggests
that, in lieu of the Section 214 applications that would be eliminated by implementation of
the proposal, we impose a notification requirement for international private line resellers on
routes already found "equivalent."  AT&T proposes that private line resellers notify the
Commission when they initiate service to an equivalent country and that the notifications be
placed on public notice. AT&T believes this notification requirement is necessary to monitor:
(1) the effect of private line resale on the U.S. net settlements outpayment, (2) progress
towards the Commission's objective to place downward pressure on accounting rates through
private line resale activity, and (3) international private line resellers that allegedly are not
complying with the traffic and circuit addition reporting requirements. 

      30.   Sprint requests a modification to the exception that a carrier previously
authorized to resell interconnected private lines would not automatically be able to provide
such resold services to newly designated equivalent countries if the carrier has an affiliation
in the equivalent country.  Sprint asks that the exception be modified to ensure that it applies
only in cases where the foreign carrier affiliate possesses market power in the equivalent
country.

(c)   Discussion

      31.   We find that the public interest would be served by adopting, with
modification, our proposed rules to enable carriers to resell private lines for switched services
to certain new locations more rapidly and thus serve their customers more efficiently.  The
proposal will increase competition in the international telecommunications market.  It also
will further reduce administrative burdens and associated regulatory costs  incurred by carriers
and the Commission.  We thus conclude that, subject to the exceptions below, carriers no
longer need to obtain separate Section 214 authority to resell private lines to provide switched
service to additional countries that are determined by the International Bureau, currently or
subsequently, to provide equivalent resale opportunities for U.S.-based carriers, as defined in
the Foreign Carrier Entry Order.    

      32.   We do not find a need to adopt AT&T's proposed reporting requirements.  The
Commission already imposes a reporting requirement on non-dominant international private
line resellers that provide switched services.  For the first three years following an
equivalency finding, we have required non-dominant international private line resellers
providing switched or interconnected international private line services between the United
States and a destination country to file with the Commission semi-annual traffic reports that
contain the same information filed in the annual traffic reports.  After three years, the carriers
file only the annual traffic reports pursuant to Section 43.61 of the Commission's Rules.  The
current Section 43.61 traffic manual specifically requires that "facilities resale carriers," i.e.,
private line resellers, report U.S. outbound and inbound traffic originating or terminating over
resold U.S. private lines.  Private line resellers are required to report their traffic according to
the ultimate point of termination or origination.  The Commission publishes this information
annually.  

      33.   We generally agree, however, with Sprint's proposed modification.  We believe
the public interest, convenience and necessity would be served by authorizing U.S.
interconnected private line resellers with foreign affiliations to be able to provide
interconnected private line services to all countries found in the future to offer equivalent  
resale opportunities, subject to one caveat.  If such a carrier is affiliated with a foreign carrier
in the equivalent country, we must have already made a determination that the affiliated
foreign carrier does not possess market power in that country.  In the absence of such a
determination, the U.S. carrier shall file a Section 214 application for interconnected private
line service to that country so that we may examine the foreign carrier's market power
position in the equivalent country.  We believe that this approach will allow the Commission
to weigh the potential for anticompetitive behavior by the foreign carrier, while at the same
time fulfill the goal of this rulemaking of easing regulatory burdens.

      34.   Accordingly, we adopt our proposed rule that allows automatic expansion of
existing Section 214 authority for carriers to resell interconnected private lines to provide
switched services to all countries designated equivalent.  We find that separate Section 214
authority is no longer needed because we will receive information identifying the countries
that individual international private line resellers are serving through traffic reports filed under
Section 43.61 of the Commission's Rules and circuit addition reports filed under Section
43.82 of the Commission's Rules.  Traffic reports will be filed on a semi-annual basis for the
first three years following an equivalency finding.  Streamlined processing will not, however,
be available to applicants with foreign carrier affiliates that are dominant in the destination
market.  

      35.   We additionally modify our rules in Section 63.18(e)(4) to permit the same
automatic expansion of existing Section 214 authorities for facilities-based private line carriers
to provide switched service to countries designated as equivalent.  Although we did not
specifically propose automatic expansion of authority for facilities-based private line carriers
in the Notice, we had not at that time adopted rules for the provision of switched basic
services over facilities-based private lines.  Now that the Foreign Carrier Entry Order has
established such rules, we see no reason not to extend to facilities-based private line carriers
the same automatic expansion policy that we proposed and have adopted for interconnected
private line resellers. 
      
                        4.   Non-common carrier satellite and cable systems 

(a)   The Notice
      
      36.   Currently, we require all carriers to obtain Section 214 authority to acquire or
lease capacity on non-common carrier facilities and additional Section 214 authority to add
circuits on these facilities.  In the Notice, we proposed that once a non-dominant, facilities-
based carrier obtains an initial Section 214 authorization, which may be for global or specific
capacity on a non-common carrier system, it would not have to file additional Section 214
applications to add circuits on previously authorized non-common carrier facilities.  This
authorization would be subject to the provisions of the exclusion list identifying facilities on
which the Commission has placed restrictions.  

(b)   Positions of the Parties

      37.   Generally, parties support our proposal.  AT&T believes, however, that U.S.
carriers regulated as dominant, for reasons other than having foreign affiliations, should not
be required to file individual Section 214 applications whenever they seek to acquire capacity
on a non-common carrier cable or satellite system.  AT&T suggests that, if the Commission
needs to monitor such purchases by these carriers, after-the-fact reporting of such capacity
purchases would be adequate even if intervention was necessary.  WorldCom asks the
Commission to clarify that this proposal applies equally to all non-common carrier facilities,
whether U.S.- or foreign-authorized.  

(c)   Discussion

      38.   We find that the public interest will be served by adopting our proposal to
eliminate the Section 214 authorization requirement to add circuits on U.S. licensed non-
common carrier facilities.  As we stated in the Notice, Section 214 authorization was needed
for our long-range facilities planning responsibilities as well as to assure compliance with
Commission conditions placed on non-common carrier systems.  But, we discontinued the
North American, Pacific and Caribbean facilities planning processes in 1988.  Additionally,
necessary conditions on the non-common carrier facilities are normally placed on the original
authorization for construction and operation of those facilities and not on the subsequent
Section 214 facilities authorizations for acquiring capacity on them.  If, as in Optel, there is
a need to place restrictions on the use of a non-common carrier system, we will place those
restrictions in both our exclusion list and any specific Section 214 authorization to use the
facility.  In light of these changes, there is no longer a need to maintain the individual Section
214 applications for carriers seeking to acquire additional capacity on U.S. non-common
carrier systems.
                  
      39.   We adopt in part AT&T's proposal that U.S. carriers regulated as dominant, for
reasons other than having foreign affiliations, also be allowed to add circuits on non-common
carrier facilities without seeking additional authorization.  As stated in our discussion about
granting global Section 214 authorities to such carriers, there is no longer a regulatory need to
treat these types of dominant carriers differently than non-dominant carriers when it comes to
adding circuits on a facility.  These carriers, however, will still need to file a Section 214
application if they seek to add circuits on a non-common carrier system to a point where they
have an affiliate that possesses market power.

                    5.   Conveyance of cable capacity 
      
(a)   The Notice
      
      40.   In our Notice, we proposed to no longer require dominant carriers to obtain
Section 214 authority prior to conveying transmission capacity in submarine cables.  In the
past, we required dominant carriers to obtain such authority in order to monitor the identity of
non-dominant carriers acquiring such transmission capacity and to monitor dominant carriers'
activities and ability to influence and control the use of the submarine cables.  Collecting
such information and making the dominant carrier's activities public was appropriate when
there was limited submarine cable transmission capacity.  Given the large increase in
submarine cable transmission capacity to all major markets and the entrance of many new
competitors in these markets, however, we tentatively concluded that the requirement was no
longer necessary. 

(b)   Positions of the Parties

      41.   Several parties support the proposal.  MCI, however, submits that the existing
Section 214 authorization requirement for the conveyance of cable capacity by dominant
carriers is valuable because it affords an opportunity for public notice and comment in
response to proposed transactions.  While MCI recognizes that the Communications Act does
not require prior Commission authorization, MCI believes that the public interest, at least for
the time being, requires that conveyance of capacity from a dominant U.S. carrier to another
U.S. carrier be subject to such authorization.  MCI asserts that, even though terms and
conditions relating to submarine cable conveyances are mutually derived and the amount of
available capacity and the number of new users has increased in recent years, there is still
incentive for dominant carriers to frustrate their non-dominant carrier competitors' ability to
negotiate reasonable rates for purchase of submarine cable capacity.  

      42.   MCI recommends that the Commission require dominant carriers like AT&T to
provide the following information in connection with the conveyance of transmission capacity
to other U.S. carriers: (1) name of the party to whom the capacity is to be conveyed; (2)
name of the facility in which capacity is to be conveyed; (3) description of the amount of
capacity to be conveyed, and (4) the price of the capacity to be conveyed.  MCI asserts that
its proposal allows the Commission and interested members of the public to remain aware of
these transactions.

      43.   While ACTA supports the Commission's proposal, it agrees with MCI's 
concerns.  ACTA believes that the Commission should be ready to eliminate any
discrimination or unreasonable practices in the negotiations for transmission capacity in
submarine cables.  

(c)   Discussion

      44.   We find that the public interest will be served by adopting a modification of
the proposal set forth in the Notice.  We find that the best approach would be to replace the
Section 214 authorization requirement with a notification requirement for dominant carriers
seeking to dispose of transmission capacity in submarine cables.  These carriers will notify
the Commission of their conveyances under Section 63.21(e).  The International Bureau will
issue a public notice of these conveyances.  Dominant carriers should provide the following
information in connection with the conveyance of transmission capacity to other U.S. carriers:
(1) name of the party to whom the capacity is to be conveyed; (2) name of the facility in
which capacity is to be conveyed; (3) description of the amount of capacity to be conveyed,
and (4) the price of the capacity to be conveyed.  This notification shall be filed with us
within thirty days after the conveyance.

      45.   Replacing the Section 214 requirement with a notification requirement reduces
the regulatory burdens imposed on dominant carriers.  As a result, dominant carriers will be
able to act more quickly to upgrade their facilities which, in turn, will enable higher quality
service for their customers.  At the same time, the minimal burden of a notification
requirement will enhance competition by providing price and terms to non-dominant carriers,
enabling them to negotiate reasonable prices for conveyance of cable capacity in submarine
cables.  

                          6.    Discontinuances 

(a)   The Notice

      46.   In the Notice, we proposed to clarify and to modify several sections of the
Commission's Rules that prescribe procedures for carriers to follow when retiring,
discontinuing, reducing or impairing service to a geographic market.  Currently, Section
63.15(c) states that "[a]ny party certified to provide non-dominant international
communications services to a particular geographic market is required to give one hundred
and twenty days' notice prior to discontinuing service to that geographic market."  We have
received many inquiries from the industry as to whether carriers should follow this simple
notification requirement or the more extensive notification requirement in Section 63.71,
which specifies to whom non-dominant international carriers should provide notification, what
the contents of the notification should be, and whether and what notice should be given when
the carrier's service is being discontinued, reduced or impaired but when overall service to
the geographic market is not.  

      47.   To address this situation, we proposed to clarify that non-dominant
international carriers should follow the less burdensome of our notification rules, Section
63.15(c), and not Section 63.71.  We also proposed to modify Section 63.15(c) to require
non-dominant international carriers that seek to discontinue, reduce, or impair service to a
community to: (1) notify their customers in writing at least sixty days in advance of their
action, as opposed to the current one hundred and twenty days and (2) send a copy of this
notification to the Commission.  Additionally, we proposed to simplify the requirements that
carriers follow when they retire international facilities, but overall service to a geographic
market is not being discontinued, reduced or impaired.   
      
(b)   Positions of the Parties

      48.   Commenters support simplifying the process and reducing the notification
period for discontinuances.  For example, AT&T states that a letter of notification to the
Commission sixty days in advance when carriers retire international facilities where service to
the geographic market is not being discontinued, reduced or impaired is sufficient.  TTH
states that sufficient (sixty-day) notice to the Commission and customers is the only necessary
restriction on retiring, discontinuing, reducing or impairing service. 
      
(c)   Discussion 

      49.   We find that the public interest will be served by adopting the proposals set
forth in the Notice.  The increase in the number of international carriers and competition in
international services means that customers can switch to another international carrier if
service is discontinued by their current carrier.  We believe it is necessary to have a sixty-day
notification requirement so that customers will have sufficient time to secure an alternative
service provider before their service is discontinued.  To avoid confusion, we will delete
Section 63.15(c) and add a new subpart in Section 63.19 that clearly details the notification
requirements for discontinuing, reducing or impairing service.  This new rule requires non-
dominant international carriers that seek to discontinue, reduce, or impair service to a
community to: (1) notify their customers in writing sixty days in advance as opposed to the
current one hundred and twenty days and (2) send a copy of this notification at least sixty
days in advance of their action to the Commission.  Where competition has increased both in
the number of available facilities and the number of carriers providing common carrier and
non-common carrier services, we conclude that impairment of service is unlikely and
customers will be able to obtain alternative service within sixty days.  
      
      50.    Sections 63.62(a) and 63.500 are modified to state specifically that Section
214 authority is not needed for dominant and non-dominant carriers retiring submarine cables
where service to the geographic market is not being discontinued, reduced or impaired. 
Customers' service is rarely impaired because carriers typically move their customers over to
new facilities before retiring a cable.  Instead, international carriers that are retiring submarine
cables that do not impair service to a community will follow the same notification
requirement in Section 63.19 as non-dominant international carriers that are discontinuing
service to a community.  Dominant carriers that seek to retire facilities that will impair or
reduce service to a community, however, shall still file applications pursuant to Sections
63.62(a) and 63.500. 

                 7.   Cable landing license applications    

(a)   The Notice

      51.   In the Notice, we proposed to simplify the application process for carriers to
obtain submarine cable landing licenses and the associated international Section 214
authorizations by reducing the information carriers submit.  We proposed to eliminate the
requirement in Section 1.767 that applicants specify the proposed use, need and desirability of
the cable.  Additionally, we proposed to allow applicants to provide a general geographic
description of the landing points in their initial applications as long as the precise landing
points are provided at least ninety days prior to construction. 

(b)   Positions of the Parties      

      52.   Most commenters support simplifying the cable landing license application
process.  MCI, however, believes that the Commission's proposal goes too far.  MCI is
concerned that the relaxed requirements will spawn speculative applications from applicants
that are not ready to build cable systems and intimidate others that may be more likely to
build systems.  Also, MCI asserts that the proposal will diminish a company's ability to
assess the future availability of cable capacity on any given route if applications are granted
that do not identify precise landing points.  Thus, MCI recommends, at a minimum, that the
Commission require applicants to: (1) file semi-annual or annual updates that include a
projected date when the precise landing points will be identified, with the date always being
no less than ninety days before the construction is to begin and/or (2) disclose to an interested
party, upon written request, information concerning the location and timing for the
construction of the cable facility.  MCI recommends that the Commission reserve the right
to review any licenses, and, where appropriate, revoke them if their continuing pendency
would be contrary to the public interest, subject to prior public notice and an attendant
comment period.

      53.   In contrast, AT&T agrees with the Notice's proposed rule that reduces the
amount of information required in cable landing license applications.  AT&T suggests that the
Commission go further.  AT&T recommends eliminating the same information, with one
exception, from the cable landing license application for non-common carrier submarine
systems as the Notice proposed to do for international Section 214 applications for new
common carrier cable systems.  AT&T states that the Commission should retain the
requirement that cable landing license applicants for non-common carrier submarine systems
submit information relating to international comity, as federal law requires the Commission to
consider international comity in determining whether to grant a submarine cable landing
license.  AT&T contends that the market, and not the Commission, should determine
whether and where there are current or anticipated needs for submarine cable systems,
regardless of whether they are built on a non-common carrier or common carrier basis.

(c)   Discussion

      54.   We find that the public interest is served by reducing the amount of
information submitted in cable landing license applications as proposed in the Notice with
some modifications.  As proposed in the Notice, we no longer will require applicants to
specify the proposed use, need and desirability of the cable in their cable landing license
applications.  Additionally, applicants will have the option to provide a general geographic
description of the landing points in their initial applications.  Grant of the application will be
conditioned, however, on our final approval of a more specific description of the landing
points to be filed by the applicant no later than ninety days prior to construction.  We will
give public notice of the filing of this description, and grant of the license will be considered
final unless we issue a public notice to the contrary no later than sixty days after receipt of
the specific description of the landing points.  In addition, we will continue to require cable
landing license applicants to give detailed ownership information, a description of the
submarine cable, including the type, number of channels, capacity, information as to whether
the cable will be operated on a common carrier or non-common carrier basis, and other
information as necessary for us to act on the application.  

      55.   We will modify our proposal, however, as we find merit to AT&T's and MCI's
suggestions.  In regard to AT&T's comments, our past practice has not differentiated between
the ownership information required for common carrier and non-common carrier cable
licenses, and we retain that approach in our new rules.  Although our current rules require
more detailed ownership information from common carrier applicants because they must
respond to the additional ownership questions in the Section 214 application accompanying
their submarine cable landing license application, it has been our practice to elicit this same
information from non-common carrier applicants on an informal basis.  In light of AT&T's
comments, however, we believe it will make things easier and clearer for non-common carrier
applicants if we place in our new rules the type of ownership information needed to act on
their applications.  This will save both non-common carrier applicants and the International
Bureau staff the additional time needed to respond to post-filing requests for additional
ownership information.
       
      56.   We also adopt in part MCI's recommended changes to our proposal.  We will
require applicants promptly to disclose to any interested party, upon written request, accurate
information concerning the location and timing for the construction of the cable facility. 
We believe that this is the least intrusive way of meeting the need for industry to know for
planning purposes what cable capacity is available now and in the near future, and this
requirement should meet that need.  We do not believe the additional burden of filing updates
with the Commission is necessary to meet this need.  We believe this revised proposal allows
carriers to monitor the availability of future capacity but also accommodates the financial
realities of the companies that lay the cables.    
      
         8.   Contents of international Section 214 applications 

(a)   The Notice

      57.    In the Notice, we proposed to simplify the application process for obtaining
international Section 214 authorizations.  We proposed to eliminate much of the information
required in an international Section 214 application, create a new rule specific to the
information needed to process an international Section 214 application, and clarify our
definition of a foreign carrier in the new rule.   
      
(b)   Positions of the Parties

      58.   Commenters support reducing the amount of information filed in international
Section 214 applications.  TTH and AT&T support the Commission's view that U.S.
international carriers' investment in submarine cable facilities are business decisions taken at
their own risk and as such need not require extensive review.  Additionally, TTH states that
requiring carriers to disclose confidential financial information may inhibit them from
constructing new facilities.  ACTA supports in particular our clarification to the definition of
a foreign carrier. 

(c)   Discussion  

      59.   We adopt the rules proposed in the Notice.  International Section 214
applicants now will file applications under the new Section 63.18 which focuses exclusively
on the contents of Section 214 applications for international carriers.  This rule eliminates the
requirement to file much information previously required under the old Section 63.01.  For
example, international Section 214 applicants seeking authority to construct and operate 
submarine cable facilities will no longer submit information on demand, cost, service quality,
media and route diversity, restoration, intramodal and intermodal competition, and
technological innovations.  By clarifying and reducing the information carriers must submit in
an international Section 214 authorization, we will serve the public interest by significantly
lessening the burden on existing carriers and new entrants.  
 
      60.   Finally, our new rule clarifies the definition of a foreign carrier for purposes of
Section 214 applications to include specifically entities authorized within a foreign country to
engage in the provision of domestic telecommunications services if such carriers have the
ability to originate or terminate telecommunications services to or from points outside of their
country.  This definition is consistent with the International Telecommunication Regulations,
as well as our recent Foreign Carrier Entry Order.  In that Order, we focused on the ability
of a non-U.S. entity seeking U.S. carrier status to discriminate against other U.S. carriers in
the origination and termination of traffic in a destination market.  A foreign domestic carrier
that terminates international traffic could have such an ability if it was the dominant carrier in
that market.  

                                          9.   Conditions of international Section 214 authorizations 

(a)   The Notice  

      61.   In the Notice, we proposed to create a new section of the rules that would list
the conditions we routinely include as part of an international Section 214 authorization. 
We believed that having these conditions listed in one section of the rules would make it
easier for carriers to determine the terms of their authorizations and for us to facilitate
implementation of our proposed streamlined procedures.  

(b)   Position of the Parties
      
      62.   No party opposes this proposal.  MCI suggests, however, that the Commission
include a requirement that dominant carriers file cable capacity conveyances that contain the
information described in Paragraphs 40-45 of this Order.

(c)   Discussion
      
      63.   We find that the public interest will be served by adopting our proposal and
listing the standard conditions applicable to international Section 214 authorizations in a new
Section 63.21.  We also will include the notification requirement requested by MCI.  Our
new rule will identify and clarify standard conditions placed in international Section 214
authorizations to facilitate implementation of our proposed streamlined procedures.  The new
rule will consist of: (1) the prohibition on the resale of private lines for the provision of
international switched services unless the country has been designated as providing equivalent
resale opportunities for U.S.-based carriers; (2) the requirement to file copies of operating
agreements entered into with foreign correspondents and all other agreements specified under
Section 43.51; (3) the requirement to file applicable tariffs; (4) the requirement to file
annual reports of overseas telecommunications traffic; (5) the requirement to file annual
circuit status and addition reports, and (6) the requirement for dominant carriers to file a
notification of conveyances of submarine cable circuits to other carriers.  We will reference
this rule in the public notice or order that serves as an applicant's international Section 214
authorization.    
      
                          III. PETITIONS TO DENY 

(a)   The Notice

      64.   In the Notice, we proposed to shorten the comment period for Section 214
applications.  We stated that our proposal would both accelerate the application process and 
make it easier for both applicants and the Commission to calculate due dates, which we
proposed to be in multiples of seven. 
      
(b)   Positions of the Parties

      65.   WorldCom was the only commenter to oppose our proposed changes to the
comment periods.  WorldCom argues that the Commission should not change the filing period
for petitions to deny non-dominant carrier applications.  WorldCom states that the standard
thirty day public comment period has served the public and the Commission well and there is
no compelling reason to reduce it.  WorldCom believes that public comment periods of 21,
28, and 30 days for different applications will be confusing and it does not believe that a 28-
day comment period is substantially easier to calculate than a 30-day.  Furthermore,
WorldCom states that, in the rare case that a petition to deny is warranted, 21 days does not
provide adequate time to prepare the appropriate pleading and the additional nine days would
not delay unduly the application process.  If a petition to deny is meritless, WorldCom states
that the International Bureau should grant the application expeditiously.  If the petition raises
material questions, it believes nine days will have little or no impact on the timing of the
International Bureau's ultimate decision.  

      66.   In addition, AT&T and SPPT proposed some modifications.  AT&T suggests
that the Commission impose a uniform 21-day public notice period for filing all petitions to
deny, for both streamlined and non-streamlined applications.  AT&T believes that all
oppositions to petitions to deny should be filed in 14 days and all replies to oppositions
should be filed in seven days.  AT&T states that all intervals should be based on calendar
days for ease in calculating due dates. 

      67.   SPPT believes that the streamlined processing procedures could be frustrated
by frivolous petitions as a formal petition to deny would remove an application from
streamlined processing.  SPPT notes that petitioners would be rewarded for their non-
meritorious filings by causing delay in the commencement of an applicant's services.  SPPT
states that the adjudication of petitions to deny is burdensome and time-consuming for the
International Bureau's staff.  SPPT recommends that the Commission consider the assessment
of filing fees on petitions to deny.  SPPT also recommends that the Commission amend
Section 63.52(c) to require petitioners to verify by affidavit all of their interests, including
economic interests, in having the application denied.  

(c)   Discussion

      68.   We adopt the proposals as set forth in the Notice with a few modifications. 
We will add a new Section 63.20 to address streamlined Section 214 filing requirements and
pleading periods.  In this rule, we will reduce the comment period on applications that are
subject to streamlined processing for facilities-based and resale applicants to 21 days.  For
non-streamlined applications, the comment period will be 28 days.  We find this distinction
necessary because non-streamlined applications are often not routine, and can raise difficult
issues.  Although we reject AT&T's request for a uniform 21-day comment period, we adopt
AT&T's suggestion that the period for filing oppositions to petitions to deny for all
applications be 14 days and the reply period 7 days.  

      69.   We acknowledge WorldCom's concern that the change from 30 to 21 days for
streamlined processing may impose a slight hardship on entities with limited resources.  If an
entity believes it needs additional time to file comments, it may request an extension of time. 
We believe that, on balance, it is less burdensome to consider requests for appropriate
extensions of time on an ad hoc basis, than to hold up the vast majority of routine
applications.  Reducing the time parties have to submit comments will accelerate the
application process and enable carriers to enter the market faster.  This annual cumulative
affect will be substantial to the industry as a whole.  Similarly, we find, contrary to
WorldCom's assertion, that reducing the comment period from 30 to 28 days for non-
streamlined applications will make due dates easier to calculate for both applicants and the
Commission.  With rare exceptions to accommodate federal holidays, the due dates will be
the same day of the week that the application appeared on public notice, only four weeks
later.  

      70.   We do not adopt SPPT's recommendation that we require full disclosure by
petitioners or assess a filing fee on Commission licensees' petitions to deny.  We do not
believe the record discloses the need to deter the filing of petitions to deny by imposing fees,
nor does it demonstrate that imposing such fees would have the intended effect. 

            IV. FORM FOR FILING OF INTERNATIONAL SECTION 214 APPLICATIONS 

(a)   The Notice

      71.   In the Notice, we proposed that applicants have the option of filing their
Section 214 applications on computer diskettes.  Also, we proposed that information or
documents in foreign languages that are submitted to the Commission in Section 214
proceedings be accompanied by a certified translation in English.  As a result of meetings
with industry, we further proposed to apply the procedures applicable to carriers' electronic
filing of their circuit status and addition reports to the Section 214 applications.  Finally, we
asked for comment on whether we should create a standard form for international Section 214
applications.     
            
(b)   Positions of the Parties
      
      72.   Most commenters support the proposal of giving parties the option of filing
their international Section 214 applications on computer diskettes.  WorldCom and SPPT,
however, support it only as long as parties also are required to file paper copies of their
applications that are made available to the public.  SPPT questions whether diskettes would
be convenient to members of the public who wish to monitor the filing of Section 214
applications or to government agencies who are entitled to be served with Section 214
applications.  SPPT suggests that it might be advisable for the Commission to rethink its
diskette proposal or to delegate to the International Bureau the authority to modify the
diskette proposal when it compiles the "filing manual" called for under proposed Section
63.53(b).

      73.   WorldCom believes there is no need to create a standard form for filing
Section 214 applications.  WorldCom states that the requirements in the proposed successor
to Section 63.01 provide more than enough guidance for applicants to file a complete Section
214 application.  Also, WorldCom states that given the variety in applicants, a form would be
more burdensome than convenient.  
      
(c)   Discussion

      74.   We adopt our proposal to give applicants the option of filing their Section 214
applications on computer diskettes.  We will, however, continue to require that applicants file
paper copies of their applications until such time as we determine that paper copies are no
longer needed to facilitate public access.  To the extent that they apply, we will apply the
same procedures adopted in the Circuit Status Order proceeding to determine how these
applications should be filed.  Namely, we direct the International Bureau to prepare a filing
manual specifying the type and format of computer diskettes to be used and to hold meetings
with the public and industry to solicit suggestions on the methods and procedures to
implement this new rule and to keep the manual current.  This approach will enable us to
facilitate public access to these applications via the Internet and eventually other means of
electronic communications.  Having applications on computer diskettes also will save the
International Bureau time inputting information to be included in non-streamlined Section 214
authorizations, thus speeding up Section 214 application processing.  
            
      75.   Also, we adopt our proposal that information or documents in foreign
languages that are submitted to us in Section 214 proceedings be accompanied by a certified
translation in English.  Currently, we receive documents in foreign languages, which
effectively precludes a large portion of the public from reading the materials.  Having English
translations of relevant documents that are now submitted in foreign languages would save us
and others the time and resources needed to translate the documents.  We believe that these
changes will help us process Section 214 applications faster. 
      
      76.   Finally, although WorldCom has raised concerns about creating a new form for
filing Section 214 applications, we believe there may be benefits to a uniform Section 214
application form.  For instance, creating a form would enable direct placement on the Internet
which would provide easy access to businesses and others seeking information about applying
for Section 214 authorizations.  Therefore, we instruct the International Bureau to determine
the practicality of a standardized form.  In addition, we will make available to the public
through the Internet and other sources filing aids such as checklists, instruction sheets or
sample applications. 

                        V. TARIFFING REQUIREMENTS 
      
(a)   The Notice

      77.   In the Notice, we proposed to streamline further the tariff requirements on
international non-dominant international resale and facilities-based carriers by permitting them
to file their international rates on one-day notice, instead of the current 14-day notice.  We
believed this action would accelerate the entry of carriers into the international
telecommunications market and allow for rapid reaction to market conditions by existing
international carriers.  We further invited commenters to address whether non-dominant
international tariff filings should be subject to relaxed form and content requirements, similar
to those that govern the filing of non-dominant, domestic interstate tariffs.
      
(b)   Positions of the Parties

      78.   Virtually all commenters, except AT&T, agree that non-dominant carriers
should be permitted to file rates based on one-day notice.  MCI states that the earlier
availability of new services and rate adjustments in the competitive arena clearly would serve
the public interest.  MCI is not aware of any non-dominant carrier's international service
tariff revision that has been challenged successfully.  MCI states that, if such an instance were
to arise, the Commission and consumers would have ample opportunity to take remedial
action after the tariff became effective.  MCI asserts that the current rules place an enormous
administrative burden upon carriers, such as MCI, which maintain single tariffs containing
provisions pertaining to both domestic and international service.  Several commenters assert
that there is no reason to impose more burdensome tariffing requirements on a carrier's
international as opposed to its domestic services. 

      79.   Although AT&T opposes our proposal, AT&T states that it would support a
one-day notice period for international tariff filings if it applied to all unaffiliated U.S.
carriers, and not just to non-dominant carriers.  AT&T opposes widening the gap between the
filing requirements imposed on dominant carriers and those imposed on non-dominant
carriers.  AT&T states that, by permitting one day's notice for only non-dominant carriers, the
Commission impedes AT&T's ability to compete and respond rapidly to its customers'
needs.
                        
(c)   Discussion

      80.   We adopt our proposal to streamline the tariff requirements on international
non-dominant international resale and facilities-based carriers.  As detailed in the
accompanying rules, we apply to international non-dominant carriers the relaxed form and
content requirements used for non-dominant domestic carriers, including the filing of the
tariffs on computer diskettes and a brief cover letter.  In addition to streamlining our tariff
content requirements, we adopt our proposed rule to allow non-dominant international carriers
to file their tariffs on one-day notice.  
      
      81.   We believe that streamlining the content requirements and the notice period for
non-dominant international carriers serves the public interest.  Simplifying non-dominant
international carriers' tariff requirements provides uniform tariffing procedures for all non-
dominant carriers' services, both international and domestic.  Shorter filing periods will help
accelerate the introduction of new international services by permitting non-dominant carriers
to respond more rapidly to competitive forces.  We recognize that competition exists in the
international services market for non-dominant carriers and find that competition combined
with filing tariffs on one-day notice is a sufficient constraint on unreasonable prices.  Under
our new streamlining rules, non-dominant carriers will not be subject to burdensome,
unnecessary regulatory oversight.  

      82.   We still need to ensure that carriers do not file international tariffs prior to
obtaining Section 214 authority for the tariffed service.  Therefore, we require carriers to
certify in their cover letter that they have international Section 214 authority, and list the file
number of the Section 214 authorization.  This will ensure that carriers are authorized under
the Communications Act to provide the proposed international service.
      
      83.   We do not adopt AT&T's suggestion to reduce the filing period to one-day
notice for unaffiliated carriers that are regulated as dominant.  We do not see justification in
this record to change these carriers' tariff content or filing requirements.  Carriers including
those unaffiliated with foreign carriers, are classified as dominant if they possess market
power, which gives them the ability to discriminate unreasonably or invoke unjust or
unreasonable rates, terms, or conditions.  Eliminating the notice period requirement for such
carriers would unduly limit our ability to review their tariffs.  Although a longer tariff filing
requirement may be an impediment to a dominant carrier's ability to compete against non-
dominant carriers, we are not persuaded at this time that a reduction in the filing requirements
would be appropriate because of our traditional concerns about dominant carriers.    

      84.   AT&T, GTE Hawaii and COMSAT, all of whom are regulated as dominant for
certain international services, each have requests pending with us seeking modifications in the
regulatory requirements applicable to them on the ground that they are subject to increasing
competition in the international services market.  We believe their individual regulatory
treatment is more appropriately addressed in those pending proceedings addressing each
carrier's regulatory classification. 
      
                              VI. FORBEARANCE   

      85.  In the Notice, we requested comment on what, if any, Section 214 authorization
requirements we should forbear from applying if given forbearance authority by Congress. 
Anticipating that Congress would pass a telecommunications reform law, ACC states that the
Commission should forbear from requiring non-dominant carriers to file specific rate tariffs. 
ACC states that this will serve the public interest by reducing the time and cost associated
with regulatory compliance on both government and carriers.  CompTel recommends that
the Commission eliminate the requirement that pure international switched resale carriers file
applications for, and receive, Section 214 authority before providing international service. 
CompTel notes that the Commission has removed Section 214 requirements for non-dominant,
domestic carriers, and that the Commission has, as the Notice recognized, "considerable
discretion" in implementing Section 214.  MCI recommends that the Commission conduct a
further proceeding in the event it obtains forbearance authority.  MCI states that the
Commission's legal ability to reduce regulation is not the equivalent of removing regulation
altogether.  MCI contends that, if an act of Congress occurred making the above option
available and the pending legislation cited by the Commission becomes law, the Commission
would need to make certain determinations about carriers, consumers, and the public interest
before exercising its forbearance authority.    

      86.   Since the filing of comments in this proceeding, Congress passed the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.  With its passage comes many new opportunities for the
Commission to promote further competition through additional deregulatory actions.  In light
of this legislation, we anticipate review of our international Section 214 authorization and
tariffing procedures to identify new areas where additional streamlining may be appropriate. 
We agree with MCI, however, that such steps should be taken in the context of a new
proceeding where we can make additional determinations about the state of competition in the
international market and receive more public input.  We will study the feasibility of the
forbearance suggestions made in this proceeding and invite the public to make additional
suggestions. 

                         VII. MISCELLANEOUS ISSUES
      
                     1.  Growth-based accounting rates

(a)   Notice and Position of Parties

      87.   In response to the Commission's request in the Notice for suggestions for
additional streamlined procedures, ACC and MFSI suggested that we change our international
settlements policy concerning growth-based accounting rates.  The Commission's international
settlements policy (ISP) provides that an accounting rate reduction offered to one U.S. carrier
by a foreign correspondent must be made available to all competing U.S. carriers in a non-
discriminatory fashion.  This policy is designed to avoid discrimination among U.S.
carriers, but many disputes have arisen over compliance with the policy.  One area of
particular dispute raised by both ACC and MFSI is "growth-based" accounting rates.  These
types of accounting rate agreements call for reductions of the accounting rate as traffic grows. 
ACC and MFSI argue that, if "growth" is only calculated based on sheer volume of the
largest carriers, such rates can have an anticompetitive, discriminatory effect.  ACC states
that the Commission should approve growth-based accounting rates only when the lower
accounting rates are made available simultaneously to all corresponding U.S. carriers based on
the aggregate volume of U.S. traffic to the same foreign point.  They state that accounting
rates should be based on the growth of the overall U.S. traffic volume to a particular foreign
point, not simply the additional volume of a large carrier that already has captured substantial
volume. 

      88.   In response, AT&T argues that the issue of growth-based accounting rates is
outside the scope of the current proceeding.  AT&T states that this issue is properly before
the Commission in four pending ISP waiver requests involving the Philippines and Malaysia,
Spain, Bolivia and Uruguay, and should be determined there or in a separate rulemaking
dedicated to accounting rate matters, not in a proceeding to streamline the international
Section 214 process.  BTNA states that action on ACC's request raises legal issues about
the sufficiency of notice under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), and states that, if the
Commission believes that these matters warrant further consideration, a separate proceeding is
both necessary and appropriate.

(b)   Discussion

      89.   We agree with AT&T and BTNA that the issue of growth-based accounting
rates was not addressed directly in the Notice.  This does not, however, preclude us from
responding to ACC's and MFSI's comments to the extent that we clarify our existing policy.
The issue of growth-based accounting rates under our ISP was recently addressed by the
International Bureau in a letter to a foreign carrier, after the pleading cycle ended in this
proceeding.  In that letter, the Bureau recognized that a growth-based rate structure could
be beneficial and consistent with our ISP when implemented in a non-discriminatory fashion. 

      90.   There are, however, many complex issues with implementing non-
discriminatory growth-based accounting rate structures.  Although this proceeding is not the
proper forum to resolve all these issues, we do, however, wish to take this opportunity to
elaborate on one aspect of the growth-based accounting rate issue.  The average unit costs of
providing international telecommunications service tend to fall as service volume increases
because fixed costs are spread over more and more units of output.  We believe that
growth-based accounting rate structures that are designed and implemented correctly will
reflect this cost characteristic, offer significant potential benefits, and promote the
Commission's objective of lower, more cost-based accounting rates.  In order to ensure
non-discrimination among U.S. carriers and to promote economic efficiency, however,
implementation of such rate structures must recognize differences in the volume of service
provided by different U.S. carriers and not be based on a service volumes attainable only by
the largest suppliers.  

                       2.   Correspondent agreements

(a)   Position of Parties

      91.   ACC suggests that the Commission adopt new rules and policies to establish
new guidelines for correspondent agreements.  ACC notes that currently the Commission
requires carriers to certify in their correspondent agreements that they have not "bargained for
preferential treatment."  ACC proposes that the Commission change the certification to state
that a carrier "has not knowingly received and is aware of no preferential treatment afforded
it."  It argues this language change would make clear to carriers that they cannot obtain
preferential treatment even if it is not "bargained for."  ACC states that the Commission
should require carriers to make such a certification for all markets in which they already hold
agreements.  ACC further proposes that the Commission prohibit discriminatory buy-in
provisions, such as those requiring more than one percent traffic levels, high capacity or
switch modification fees as a condition of obtaining an operating agreement.  Again, BTNA
objects to the Commission considering these issues in this proceeding, arguing insufficient
notice was given under the APA.

(b)   Discussion

      92.   In our Foreign Carrier Entry Order, we amended Section 63.14 to prohibit all
U.S. international carriers from agreeing to accept special concessions directly or indirectly
from any foreign carrier or administration with respect to traffic or revenue flows between the
United States and a foreign country.  We believe ACC's concerns are effectively addressed
by our "no special concessions" clause.  U.S. carriers have an affirmative obligation to reject
any preferential treatment from a foreign administration or carrier once the U.S. carrier is
made aware of that treatment.  Amending Section 64.1001 to add a certification requirement
of compliance with this obligation would only be an additional paperwork burden on
applicants without any additional benefit.  Therefore, we decline to adopt ACC's proposed
changes.

           3.  "Fresh-look" for long-term service arrangements 

(a)   Position of Parties

      93.   Pacwest suggests that the Commission permit customers with long-term service
arrangements to terminate such arrangements upon the introduction of new service offerings
by competitive service providers.  Pacwest contends that long-term service arrangements with
incumbent, monopoly service providers inhibit the development of competition and effectively
prevent customers from using the facilities of competitive service providers such as Pacwest. 
Pacwest asserts that the Commission should require local exchange carriers ("LECs") to
include a "fresh look" period which would be triggered upon the introduction of competition. 
Pacwest argues that this provision should be included in all interstate/international access
tariffing because it would allow customers with long-term service arrangements with the
LECs to consider new competitive providers for their telecommunications needs upon their
introduction in the market.  

      94.   BTNA and GTE state that Pacwest's proposal is outside the scope of this
proceeding.  BTNA contends that Pacwest's proposal, if adopted, would be a federal
abrogation of private contracts, which is a step not lightly taken or often used. In addition,
BTNA states that the Communications Act requires a Section 205 hearing before taking such
action, and that the instant notice and rulemaking is not an adequate substitute.  GTE adds
that Pacwest made the same argument to the Commission over a year ago in a separate filing
concerning GTE Hawaii's cable landing license.

(b)   Discussion
      
      95.   We agree with BTNA and GTE that Pacwest's proposal goes far beyond the
scope of this proceeding to streamline the Section 214 authorization process and tariff
requirements.  Pacwest is seeking to change requirements for local exchange carriers.  These
rule changes would be addressed better in a proceeding that was targeted towards competitive
access providers (CAPs) and their relationships with LECs.  To make such a change here
would deny many interested parties the opportunity to comment because these issues were not
raised in the Notice, and these affected entities are not participating or likely to review the
comments in this proceeding.  Therefore, we deny Pacwest's proposal.

                              VIII. CONCLUSION

      96.   In this Order, we modify our Section 214 application process and tariff
requirements to eliminate unnecessary and burdensome regulations.  We adopt rules that will
streamline our regulations on international carriers, reduce the processing time of Section 214
applications, and clarify our rules relating to international carriers.  We anticipate that our
new rules will make entry to and exit from the international services market easier and faster
for international carriers.  This will lead to greater competition and, in turn, greater
responsiveness to consumer needs.  Ultimately, consumers will receive lower prices, better
quality and greater choices in their international services. 
                  IX. PROCEDURAL MATTERS; ORDERING CLAUSES

      97.   The analysis pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 is contained
in Appendix B.

      98.   Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that the policies, rules, and requirements
adopted herein, except those needing OMB approval, WILL BECOME EFFECTIVE thirty
days after publication in the Federal Register. 

      99.   Matters subject to OMB approval, pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of
1995, Pub. L. No. 104-13, WILL BECOME EFFECTIVE upon such approval.  

      100.  This action is taken pursuant to Sections 4, 214, 219, 303(r) and 403 of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 154, 214, 219, 303(r) and 403.  

      101.  IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this proceeding IS HEREBY
TERMINATED. 

      
                              FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

            

                              William F. Caton
                              Acting Secretary 
                                APPENDIX A

                                FINAL RULES

      Part 1, 61 and 63 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as
follows:

      PART 1 -- PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

      1.    The authority citation for Part 1 continues to read as follows:

      AUTHORITY: ---  47 U.S.C. 151, 154, 303, and 309(j) unless otherwise noted.
 
      2.    Section 1.767 is amended by revising paragraph (a) and adding new paragraphs
(e) and (f) to read as follows:

 1.767 Cable landing licenses.

      (a)   Applications for cable landing licenses under 47 U.S.C. 34-39 and Executive
Order No. 10530, dated May 10, 1954, should be filed in duplicate and in accordance with
the provisions of that Executive Order.  These applications should contain: 
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number(s) of the applicant; 
      (2)   The Government, State, or Territory under the laws of which each corporate or
partnership applicant is organized; 
      (3)   The name, title, post office address, and telephone number of the officer and
any other contact point, such as legal counsel, to whom correspondence concerning the
application is to be addressed;
      (4)   A description of the submarine cable, including the type and number of
channels and the capacity thereof; 
      (5)   A specific description of the cable landing location on the shore of the United
States and in foreign countries where the cable will land (including a map).  Applicants
initially may file a general geographic description of the landing points; however, grant of the
application will be conditioned on the Commission's final approval of a more specific
description of the landing points to be filed by the applicant no later than 90 days prior to
construction.  The Commission will give public notice of the filing of this description, and
grant of the license will be considered final if the Commission does not notify the applicant
otherwise in writing no later than 60 days after receipt of the specific description of the
landing points.
      (6)   A statement as to whether the cable will be operated on a common carrier or
non-common carrier basis, and if operation will be on a non-common carrier basis, include
the ownership information required in Section 63.18(e)(6) and (h)(1) through (2) of this
chapter; and 
      (7)   Any other information that may be necessary to enable the Commission to act
on their application. 

*****
      (e)   A separate application shall be filed with respect to each individual cable
system for which a license is requested, or for which modification or amendment of a
previous license is requested.      
      (f)   Applicants shall disclose to any interested member of the public, upon written
request, accurate information concerning the location and timing for the construction of a
submarine cable system authorized under this section.  This disclosure shall be made within
30 days of receipt of the request. 

PART 61 -- TARIFFS

      1.  The authority citation for Part 61 continues to read as follows:

      AUTHORITY: Secs. 1, 4(i), 4(j), 201-205, and 403 of the Communications Act of
1934, as amended; 47 U.S.C. 151, 154(i), 154(j), 201-205, and 403, unless otherwise noted.

      2.  Section 61.20 is amended by revising its preceding centered headings and
paragraph (b) to read as follows:

                               GENERAL RULES

               GENERAL RULES FOR DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL
                           NONDOMINANT CARRIERS

 61.20 Method of filing publications.

*****

     (b)(1)    In addition, for all tariff publications requiring fees as set forth in part 1,
subpart G of this chapter, issuing carriers must submit the original of the cover letter (without
attachments), FCC Form 159, and the appropriate fee to the Mellon Bank, Pittsburgh, PA at
the address set forth in Section 1.1105 of this chapter.  Issuing carriers should submit these
fee materials on the same date as the submission in paragraph (a) of this section.
     (2)  International carriers must certify in their original cover letter that they are
authorized under Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, to provide
service, and reference the FCC file number of that authorization. 

*****

     3.  Section 61.21 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows:

 61.21 Cover letters.

     (a)(1)    Except as specified in Section 61.32(b), all publications filed with the
Commission must be accompanied by a cover letter, 8.5 by 11 inches (21.6 cm x 27.9 cm) in
size.  All cover letters should briefly explain the nature of the filing and indicate the date and
method of filing of the original cover letter, as required by Section 61.20(b)(1).
     (2)  International carriers must certify that they are authorized under Section 214 of
the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, to provide service, and reference the FCC file
number of that authorization. 

*****


     4.  Section 61.22 is amended by revising its preceding centered headings and
paragraphs (b) and (d) to read as follows:  

SPECIFIC RULES FOR DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL
                          NONDOMINANT CARRIERS

 61.22 Composition of tariffs.

*****

     (b)  The tariff must contain the carrier's name, the international Section 214
authorization FCC file number (when applicable), and the information required by Section
203 of the Act.

*****

     (d)  Domestic and international nondominant carriers subject to the provisions of
this Section are not subject to the tariff filing requirements of Section 61.54.

5.  Section 61.23(c) is revised to read as follows:

 61.23 Notice requirements.

*****

     (c)  Tariff filings of domestic and international non-dominant carriers must be made
on at least one-day notice.



      PART 63 -- EXTENSION OF LINES AND DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE
BY CARRIERS AND GRANTS OF RECOGNIZED PRIVATE OPERATING AGENCY
STATUS 

     1.   The authority citation for Part 63 continues to read as follows:

     AUTHORITY: ---  Sections 1, 4(i), 4(j), 201-205, 218, and 403 of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 613 of the Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984, 47 U.S.C. secs. 151, 154(i), 15(j), 201-205, 218, 403, and 533 unless
otherwise noted.

     2.   Section 63.01 is amended by removing paragraphs (k)(5) through (7), (r), (s)
and Notes 1 through 4, and revising the section heading and introductory paragraph, to read
as follows:

 63.01 Contents of applications for domestic common carriers.

     Except as otherwise provided in this part, any party proposing to undertake any
construction of a new line, extension of any line, acquisition, lease, or operation of any line
or extension thereof or engage in transmission over or by means of such line, and such line
originates and terminates in the United States, for which authority is required under the
provisions of Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, shall request such
authority by formal application which shall be accompanied by a statement showing how the
proposed construction, etc., will serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity. Such
statement must include the following information as applicable:

*****

     3.   Section 63.05 is amended by revising the section heading to read as follows: 

Section 63.05  Commencement and completion of construction for domestic common
carriers.

*****

     4.   Section 63.10 is amended by revising the last sentence of paragraphs (a), (a)(3),
and (a)(4), and all of (c)(3) to read as follows:

Section 63.10  Regulatory classification of U.S. international carriers.

     (a) *** For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) through (3) of this section, "affiliation" and
"foreign carrier" are defined as set forth in Section 63.18(h)(1)(i) and (ii), respectively.

*****
     (3) *** Such a demonstration should address the factors that relate to the scope or
degree of the foreign affiliate's bottleneck control, including those listed in Section
63.18(h)(8).
     (4) *** The existence of an affiliation with a U.S. facilities-based international carrier
shall be assessed in accordance with the definition of affiliation contained in Section
63.18(h)(i), except that the phrase "U.S. facilities-based international carrier" shall be
substituted for the phrase "foreign carrier."

*****
     (c) ***
     (3)  Obtain Commission approval pursuant to Section 63.18 before adding or
discontinuing circuits; and

*****   

     5.   Section 63.11 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (a)(2), (c)(1) through (3),
(d), and the last sentence of (e)(2) to read as follows:

 63.11  Notification by and prior approval for U.S. international carriers that have or
propose to acquire ten percent investments by, and/or an affiliation with, a foreign
carrier.

     (a)  Any carrier authorized to provide international communications service under
this part that, as of the effective date of this rule as amended in IB Docket No. 95-22, is, or
has an affiliation with, a foreign carrier within the meaning of Section 63.18(h)(1)(i)(A) or
(h)(1)(i)(B), or that as of such date knows of an existing ten percent or greater interest,
whether direct or indirect, in the capital stock of the authorized carrier by a foreign carrier, or
that after the effective date of this rule becomes affiliated with a foreign carrier within the
meaning of Section 63.18(h)(1)(i)(A), shall notify the Commission within thirty days of the
effective date of this rule or within thirty days of the acquisition of the affiliation, whichever
occurs later.  For purposes of this section, "foreign carrier" is defined as set forth in Section
63.18(h)(1)(ii).

*****
     (2)  Any carrier that has previously notified the Commission of an affiliation with a
foreign carrier, as defined by Section 63.18(h)(1) immediately prior to the rule's amendment
in IB Docket No. 95-22, need not notify the Commission again of the same affiliation.

*****
     (c) ***
     (1)   The carrier also should specify, where applicable, those countries named in
paragraph (c) for which it provides a specified international communications service solely
through the resale of the international switched or private line services of U.S. facilities-based
carriers with which the resale carrier does not have an affiliation.  Such an affiliation is
defined in Section 63.18(h)(1)(i), except that the phrase "U.S. facilities-based international
carrier" shall be substituted for the phrase "foreign carrier."
     (2)  The carrier shall also submit with its notification:
     (i)  The ownership information as required to be submitted pursuant to 
Section 63.18(h)(2);
     (ii)      Where the carrier  is authorized as a private line reseller on a particular route
for which it has an affiliation with a foreign carrier, as defined in Section 63.18(h)(1)(i), a
certification as required to be submitted pursuant to Section 63.18(h)(4); and
     (iii)     A "special concessions" certification as required to be submitted pursuant to
Section 63.18(i).
     (3)  The carrier is responsible for the continuing accuracy of the certifications
provided under this section.  Whenever the substance of any certification provided under  this
section is no longer accurate, the carrier shall as promptly as possible, and in any event
within thirty days, file with the Secretary in duplicate a corrected certification referencing the
FCC File No. under which the original certification was provided, except that the carrier shall
immediately inform the Commission if at any time the representations in the "special
concessions" certification provided under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section are no longer
true.  See  63.18(i))(2).  This information may be used by the Commission to determine
whether a change in regulatory status may be warranted under Section 63.10.
     (d)  Unless the carrier notifying the Commission of a foreign carrier affiliation
under paragraph (a) of this section qualifies for the presumption of non-dominant regulation
pursuant to Section 63.10(a)(4), it should submit the information specified in Section
63.18(h)(8) to retain its non-dominant status on any affiliated route.
     (e) ***
     (2) ***  If notified that the acquisition raises a substantial and material question, then
the carrier shall not consummate the planned investment until it has filed an application under
Section 63.18 and submitted the information specified under paragraphs (h)(6) or (7), as
applicable, and (8) of that section, and the Commission has approved the application by
formal written order.

     6.   Section 63.12 is revised to read as follows:

 63.12  Streamlined processing of certain international facilities-based and resale
applications.

     (a)  Except as provided by paragraph (c) of this section, a complete application
seeking authorization under Section 63.18(e)(1) and (2) to acquire facilities to provide
international services shall be granted by the Commission 35 days after the date of public
notice listing the application as accepted for filing.
     (b)  Issuance of public notice of the grant shall be deemed the issuance of Section
214 certification to the applicant, which may commence operation on the 36th day after the
date of public notice listing the application as accepted for filing, but only in accordance with
the operations proposed in its application and the rules, regulations, and policies of the
Commission.
     (c)  The streamlined processing procedures provided by paragraphs (a) and (b) of
this section shall not apply where:
     (1)  The applicant seeks authority under either Section 63.18(e)(1) for global
Section 214 authority to operate as a facilities-based carrier or Section 63.18(e)(2) to resell
international services, and the applicant has an affiliation within the meaning of Section
63.18(h)(1)(i) with a facilities-based foreign carrier in a destination market, and the
Commission has not yet made a determination as to whether that foreign carrier possesses
market power in that market; or 
     (2)  The applicant has an affiliation within the meaning of Section 63.18(h)(1)(i)
with a dominant U.S. facilities-based carrier whose international switched or private line
services the applicant seeks authority to resell (either directly or indirectly through the resale
of another reseller's services); or
     (3)  The applicant seeks authority under Section 63.18(e)(2) to resell international
private line services to a country for which the Commission has not determined as of the date
of public notice of the application that equivalent resale opportunities exist between the
United States and the destination country; or
     (4)  The application is formally opposed within the meaning of Section 1.1202(e) of
this chapter; or
     (5)  The Commission has informed the applicant in writing, including by public
notice, within 28 days after the date of public notice accepting the application for filing, that
the application is not eligible for streamlined processing under this section.
     (d)  Any complete application that is subject to paragraph (c) of this section will be
acted upon only by formal written order and operation for which such authorization is sought
may not commence except in accordance with such order.
     Note:  The term "facilities-based carrier" as used in this section means one that holds
an ownership, indefeasible-right-of-user, or leasehold interest in bare capacity in an
international facility, regardless of whether the underlying facility is a common or non-
common carrier submarine cable, or an INTELSAT or separate satellite system.

     7.   Section 63.13 is amended by revising the last sentence of paragraphs (a)(3) and
(a)(5), and revising (a)(4) to read as follows:

 63.13  Streamlined procedures for modifying regulatory classification of U.S.
international carriers from dominant to non-dominant.

*****
     (a) ***
     (3) ***  For purposes of this paragraph, "telecommunications facilities" are defined as
in Section 63.18(h)(4).  
     (4)       Any carrier filing a certified list pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section
must also provide the "special concessions" certification as required to be submitted pursuant
to Section 63.18(i).
     (5) *** See  63.18(i)(2).

*****
     8.   Section 63.14 is revised to read as follows:

 63.14  Prohibition on agreeing to accept special concessions.

     Any carrier authorized to provide international communications service under this part
shall be prohibited from agreeing to accept special concessions directly or indirectly from any
foreign carrier or administration with respect to traffic or revenue flows between the United
States and any foreign country served under the authority of this part and from agreeing to
enter into such agreements in the future.  For purposes of this section, "foreign carrier" is
defined as in Section 63.18(h)(1)(ii) and "special concession" is defined as in Section 63.18(i).

     9.   Section 63.15 is revised to read as follows:

 63.15  Special procedures for international service providers.

     Any party seeking to construct, acquire or operate lines in any new major common
carrier facility project or non-U.S. licensed satellite or cable system for the provision of
international common carrier services shall file an application pursuant to Section 63.18(e)(6)
of this chapter.  If a carrier has global Section 214 authority pursuant to the provisions of
Section 63.18(e)(1) of this chapter,  and the carrier desires to use non-U.S. licensed facilities
pursuant to the provisions of Section 63.18(e)(1)(ii)(B), this filing requirement does not apply.
     
     10.  Section 63.17 is amended by revising paragraphs (b) and (b)(4) to read as
follows:

 63.17  Special provisions for U.S. international common carriers

*****

     (b)  Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, a U.S. common carrier,
whether a reseller or facilities-based, may engage in "switched hubbing" to countries not
found to offer equivalent resale opportunities under Section 63.18(e)(3) and (4) under the
following conditions:

*****

     (4)  No U.S. common carrier may engage in switched hubbing under this section to
a country where it has an affiliation with a foreign carrier unless and until it receives specific
authority to do so under Section 63.18.  For purposes of this paragraph, "affiliation" and
"foreign carrier" are defined in Section 63.18(h)(1)(i)(B) and (ii), respectively.
     11.  New Section 63.18 is added to read as follows:

 63.18 Contents of applications for international common carriers.

     Except as otherwise provided in this part, any party seeking authority pursuant to
Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, to construct a new line, or
acquire or operate any line, or engage in transmission over or by means of such additional
line for the provision of common carrier communications services between the United States,
its territories or possessions, and a foreign point shall request such authority by formal
application which shall be accompanied by a statement showing how the grant of the
application will serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity.  Such statement shall
consist of the following information, as applicable: 
     (a)  The name, address, and telephone number of each applicant;
     (b)  The Government, State, or Territory under the laws of which each corporate or
partnership applicant is organized;
     (c)  The name, title, post office address, and telephone number of the officer and
any other contact point, such as legal counsel, to whom correspondence concerning the
application is to be addressed;
     (d)  A statement as to whether the applicant has previously received authority under
Section 214 of the Act and, if so, a general description of the categories of facilities and
services authorized (i.e., authorized to provide international switched services on a facilities
basis);
     (e)  One or more of the following statements, as pertinent:
     (1)       If applying for authority to acquire interests in facilities previously authorized
by the Commission in order to provide international basic switched, private line, data,
television and business services to all international points, the applicant shall:
     (i)       State that it is requesting Section 214 authority to operate as a facilities-based
carrier pursuant to the terms and conditions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section. 
     (ii)      Comply with the following terms and conditions:
     (A)  Authority to provide services to all international points under this part extends
only to those countries for which the applicant qualifies for non-dominant regulation as set
forth in Section 63.10.  If an applicant is affiliated with a facilities-based foreign carrier in a
destination market and the Commission has not determined that the foreign carrier does not
possess market power in that market, the applicant shall not commence service on any such
route unless and until it receives specific authority to do so under paragraph (e)(6) of this
section.  If an applicant becomes dominant on a particular route after receiving authority
under this Section, the terms and conditions of Section 63.10(c) will apply to its provision of
services on the dominant route.  An applicant should file separately under Section 63.18(e)(6)
to provide service on routes on which it may not qualify for regulation as a non-dominant
carrier.
     (B)  The applicant may only provide service using half-circuits on appropriately
licensed U.S. common and non-common carrier facilities (either under Title III of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or the Submarine Cable Landing License Act, 47
U.S.C.  34 et. al.) provided that these facilities do not appear on an exclusion list published
by the Commission and any necessary overseas connecting facilities. Applicants may not use
non-U.S. licensed facilities unless and until the Commission specifically approves their use
and so indicates on the exclusion list, and only then for service to the countries indicated
thereon.
     (C)  The applicant may provide service to any country not included on an exclusion
list published by the Commission. 
     (D)  The applicant may provide international basic switched, private line, data,
television and business services.
     (E)  The authority granted under this paragraph shall be subject to all Commission
rules and regulations and any conditions stated in the Commission's public notice or order
that serves as the applicant's Section 214 certificate.  See  63.12.  
     (2)  If applying for authority to resell the international services of authorized U.S.
common carriers for the provision of international basic switched, private line, data, television
and business services to all international points, the applicant shall:
     (i)       State that it is requesting Section 214 authority to operate as a resale carrier
pursuant to the terms and conditions of Section 63.18(e)(2). 
     (ii)      Comply with the following the terms and conditions:
     (A)  The applicant may resell the international services of any authorized common
carrier, except affiliated carriers regulated as dominant on the route to be served, pursuant to
that carrier's tariff or contract duly filed with the Commission, for the provision of
international basic switched, private line, data, television and business services to all
international points;
     (B)  The applicant may resell private line services for the provision of international
basic switched services only to countries found by the Commission to provide equivalent
resale opportunities, except in circumstances where the applicant is affiliated with a facilities-
based foreign carrier in a destination market and the Commission has not determined that the
foreign carrier does not possess market power in that market.  In such circumstances, the
applicant shall not commence service on any such route unless and until it receives specific
authority to do so under paragraph (e)(6) of this section.  The Commission will provide
public notice of its determinations. 
     (C)  The authority granted under this paragraph shall be subject to all Commission
rules and regulations and any conditions stated in the Commission's public notice or order
that serves as the applicant's Section 214 certificate.  See  63.12.
     (3)  If applying for authority to resell private lines for the purpose of providing
international basic switched services to countries not on the Commission's published list of
equivalent countries, applicant shall demonstrate for each country to which it seeks to provide
service that that country affords resale opportunities equivalent to those available under U.S.
law.  In this regard, applicant shall:
     (i)  Include evidence demonstrating that equivalent resale opportunities exist
between the United States and the subject country, including any relevant bilateral agreements
between the administrations involved.  Parties must demonstrate that the foreign country at
the other end of the private line provides U.S.-based carriers with:  
     (A)  The legal right to resell international private lines, interconnected at both ends,
for the provision of switched services;
     (B)  Nondiscriminatory charges, terms and conditions for interconnection to foreign
domestic carrier facilities for termination and origination of international services, with
adequate means of enforcement;
     (C)  Competitive safeguards to protect against anticompetitive and discriminatory
practices affecting private line resale; and
     (D)  Fair and transparent regulatory procedures, including separation between the
regulator and operator of international facilities-based services.
     (ii) The procedures set forth in paragraph (e)(3) of this section are subject to
Commission policies on resale of international private lines in CC Docket No. 90-337 as
amended in IB Docket No. 95-22.  
     (4)  Any carrier authorized under this section to acquire and operate international
private line facilities other than through resale may use those private lines to provide switched
basic services to countries found by the Commission to provide equivalent resale
opportunities except in circumstances where the applicant is affiliated with a facilities-based
foreign carrier in the country at the foreign end of the private line, and the Commission has
not determined that the foreign carrier does not possess market power in that market.  In such
circumstances, the applicant shall not commence service on such route unless and until it
receives specific authority to do so under paragraph (e)(6) of this section.  The Commission
will provide public notice of its equivalency findings. The applicant is subject to all
applicable Commission rules and regulations and any conditions stated in the Commission's
public notice or order that serves as the applicant's Section 214 certificate.  See  63.12.
     (i)  Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, any carrier that seeks
to provide switched basic services over its authorized private line facilities to countries not
identified in the Commission's published list of equivalent countries shall, for each country
for which it seeks to provide switched basic service over its authorized private lines facilities,
request such authority by formal application.  Such application shall be accompanied by a
demonstration that that country affords resale opportunities equivalent to those available under
U.S. law.  In this regard, applicant shall include the information required by paragraph (3) of
this section.
     (ii) No formal application is required under paragraph (e)(4) of this section in
circumstances where the carrier's previously authorized private line facility is interconnected
to the public switched network only on one end -- either the U.S. or the foreign end -- and
where the carrier is not operating the facility in correspondence with a carrier that directly or
indirectly owns the private line facility in the foreign country at the other end of the private
line.
     (5)  If applying for authority to acquire facilities through the transfer of control of a
common carrier holding international Section 214 authorization, or through the assignment of
another carrier's existing authorization, the applicant shall complete paragraph (a) through (d)
of this section for both the transferor/assignor and the transferee/assignee.  Paragraph (g) of
this section is not applicable, and only the transferee/assignee needs to complete paragraph (i)
and (j) of this section.  At the beginning of the application, the applicant should also include
a narrative of the means by which the transfer or assignment will take place.  The
Commission reserves the right to request additional information as to the particulars of the
transaction to aid it in making its public interest determination.
     (6)  If applying for authority to acquire facilities or to provide services not covered
by Sections 63.18(e)(1) through (5), the applicant shall provide a description of the facilities
and services for which it seeks authorization.  Such description also shall include any
additional information the Commission shall have specified previously in an order, public
notice or other official action as necessary for authorization.  Applicants for new submarine
cable facilities also shall include a list of the proposed owners of the cable, their voting
interests and ownership interests by segment in the cable. 
     (f)  Applicants may apply for any or all of the authority provided for in paragraph
(e) of this section in the same application.  The applicant may want to file separate
applications for those services not subject to streamlined processing under Section 63.12. 
     (g)  Where the applicant is seeking facilities-based authority under paragraph (e)(6)
of this section, a statement whether an authorization of the facilities is categorically excluded
as defined by Section 1.1306 of this chapter.  If answered affirmatively, an environmental
assessment as described in Section 1.1311 of this chapter need not be filed with the
application.
     (h)  A certification as to whether or not the applicant is, or has an affiliation with, a
foreign carrier.
     (1)  The certification shall state with specificity each foreign country in which the
applicant is, or has an affiliation with, a foreign carrier.  For purposes of this certification:
     (i)  Affiliation is defined to include: 
     (A)  A greater than 25 percent ownership of capital stock, or controlling interest at
any level, by the applicant, or by any entity that directly or indirectly controls or is controlled
by it, or that is under direct or indirect common control with it, in a foreign carrier or in any
entity that directly or indirectly controls a foreign carrier; or 
     (B)  A greater than 25 percent ownership of capital stock, or controlling interest at
any level, in the applicant by a foreign carrier, or by any entity that directly or indirectly
controls or is controlled by a foreign carrier, or that is under direct or indirect common
control with a foreign carrier; or by two or more foreign carriers investing in the applicant in
the same manner in circumstances where the foreign carriers are parties to, or the
beneficiaries of, a contractual relation (e.g., a joint venture or market alliance) affecting the
provision or marketing of basic international telecommunications services in the United
States.  A U.S. carrier also will be considered to be affiliated with a foreign carrier where the
foreign carrier controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with a second foreign
carrier already found to be affiliated with that U.S. carrier under this section.    
     (ii)      Foreign carrier is defined as any entity that is authorized within a foreign
country to engage in the provision of international telecommunications services offered to the
public in that country within the meaning of the International Telecommunication
Regulations, see Final Acts of the World Administrative Telegraph and Telephone
Conference, Melbourne, 1988 (WATTC-88), Art. 1, which includes entities authorized to
engage in the provision of domestic telecommunications services if such carriers have the
ability to originate or terminate telecommunications services to of from points outside their
country.
     (2)  In support of the required certification, each applicant shall also provide the
name, address, citizenship and principal businesses of its ten percent or greater direct and
indirect shareholders or other equity holders and identify any interlocking directorates.
     (3)  Each applicant that proposes to acquire facilities through the resale of the
international switched or private line services of another U.S. carrier shall additionally certify
as to whether or not the applicant has an affiliation with the U.S. carrier(s) whose
facilities-based service(s) the applicant proposes to resell (either directly or indirectly through
the resale of another reseller's service).  For purposes of this paragraph, affiliation is defined
as in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, except that the phrase "U.S. facilities-based
international carrier" shall be substituted for the phrase "foreign carrier."
     (4)  Each applicant that certifies under this section that it has an affiliation with a
foreign carrier and that proposes to resell the international private line services of another
U.S. carrier shall additionally certify as to whether the affiliated foreign carrier owns or
controls telecommunications facilities in the particular country(ies) to which the applicant
proposes to provide service (i.e., the destination country(ies)).  For purposes of this paragraph,
telecommunications facilities are defined as the underlying telecommunications transport
means, including intercity and local access facilities, used by a foreign carrier to provide
international telecommunications services offered to the public.
     (5)  Each applicant and carrier authorized to provide international communications
service under this part is responsible for the continuing accuracy of the certifications required
by paragraphs (h)(3) and (4) of this section.  Whenever the substance of any such certification
is no longer accurate, the applicant/carrier shall as promptly as possible and in any event
within thirty days file with the Secretary in duplicate a corrected certification referencing the
FCC File No. under which the original certification was provided.  This information may be
used by the Commission to determine whether a change in regulatory status may be warranted
under Section 63.10.
     (6)  Each applicant that certifies that it is, or that it has an affiliation with, a foreign
carrier, as defined in paragraphs (h)(1)(i)(B) and (ii), respectively, in a named foreign country
and that seeks to operate as a U.S. facilities-based international carrier to that country from
the United States shall provide information in its application filed under this part to
demonstrate that either:
     (i)  The named foreign country (i.e., the destination foreign country) provides
effective competitive opportunities to U.S. carriers to compete in that country's international
facilities-based market; or
     (ii)      Its affiliated foreign carrier does not have the ability to discriminate against
unaffiliated U.S. international carriers through control of bottleneck services or facilities in the
destination country.
     (A)  The demonstration specified by paragraph (6)(i) of this subsection should
address the following factors:
     (1)  The legal ability of U.S. carriers to enter the foreign market and provide
facilities-based international services, in particular international message telephone service
(IMTS);
     (2)  Whether there exist reasonable and nondiscriminatory charges, terms and
conditions for interconnection to a foreign carrier's domestic facilities for termination and
origination of international services;
     (3)  Whether competitive safeguards exist in the foreign country to protect against
anticompetitive practices, including safeguards such as:
     (i)  Existence of cost-allocation rules in the foreign country to prevent cross-
subsidization;
     (ii) Timely and nondiscriminatory disclosure of technical information needed to
use, or interconnect with, carriers' facilities; and 
     (iii)     Protection of carrier and customer proprietary information;
     (4)  Whether there is an effective regulatory framework in the foreign country to
develop, implement and enforce legal requirements, interconnection arrangements and other
safeguards; and
     (5)  Any other factors the applicant deems relevant to its demonstration.
     (B)  The demonstration specified in paragraph (h)(6)(ii) of this section should
include the same information requested by paragraph(h)(8) of this section.
     (7)   Each applicant that certifies that it is, or that it has an affiliation with, a
foreign carrier, as defined in paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) and (ii), respectively, in a named foreign
country and that proposes to resell the international switched or non-interconnected private
line services, respectively, of another U.S. carrier for the purpose of providing international
communications services to the named foreign country from the United States shall provide
information in its application filed under this part to demonstrate that either:
     (i)  The named foreign country (i.e., the destination foreign country) provides
effective competitive opportunities to U.S. carriers to resell international switched or non-
interconnected private line services, respectively; or
     (ii)      Its affiliated foreign carrier does not have the ability to discriminate against
unaffiliated U.S. international carriers through control of bottleneck services or facilities in the
destination country.
     (A)  The demonstration specified by paragraph (h)(7)(i) of this section should
address the following factors:
     (1)  The legal ability of U.S. carriers to enter the foreign market and provide resold
international switched services (for switched resale applications) or non-interconnected private
line services (for non-interconnected private line resale applications);
     (2)  Whether there exist reasonable and nondiscriminatory charges, terms and
conditions for the provision of the relevant resale service;
     (3)  Whether competitive safeguards exist in the foreign country to protect against
anticompetitive practices, including safeguards such as:
     (i)  Existence of cost-allocation rules in the foreign country to prevent cross-
subsidization;
     (ii) Timely and nondiscriminatory disclosure of technical information needed to
use, or interconnect with, carriers' facilities; and  
     (iii)     Protection of carrier and customer proprietary information;
     (4)  Whether there is an effective regulatory framework in the foreign country to
develop, implement and enforce legal requirements, interconnection arrangements and other
safeguards; and
     (5)  Any other factors the applicant deems relevant to its demonstration.
     (B)  The demonstration specified in paragraph (h)(7)(ii) of this section should
include the same information requested by paragraph (h)(8) of this subsection.
     (8)  Each applicant that certifies that it has an affiliation with a foreign carrier in a
named foreign country and that desires to be regulated as non-dominant for the provision of
international communications service to that country may provide information in its
application filed under this part to demonstrate that its affiliated foreign carrier does not have
the ability to discriminate against unaffiliated U.S. international carriers through control of
bottleneck services or facilities in the named foreign country.  See  63.10, Regulatory
Classification of U.S. International Carriers.
     (i)  Such a demonstration should address the factors that relate to the scope or
degree of the foreign affiliate's bottleneck control, such as:
     (A)  The monopoly, duopoly, or oligopoly status of the destination country; and 
     (B)  Whether the foreign affiliate has the potential to discriminate against
unaffiliated U.S. international carriers through such means as preferential operating
agreements, preferential routing of traffic, exclusive or more favorable transiting agreements,
or preferential domestic access and interconnection arrangements.
     (ii)      Such a demonstration may also address other factors the applicant deems
relevant, such as the effectiveness of regulation in the destination country.
     (i)  Each applicant shall certify that the applicant has not agreed to accept special
concessions directly or indirectly from any foreign carrier or administration with respect to
traffic or revenue flows between the U.S. and any foreign country which the applicant may
serve under the authority granted under this part and will not enter into such agreements in
the future.
     (1)  For purposes of paragraph (i) of this section, and of Sections 63.11(c)(2)(iii),
63.13(a)(4), and 63.14, special concession is defined as any arrangement that affects traffic or
revenue flows to or from the United States that is offered exclusively by a foreign carrier or
administration to a particular U.S. international carrier and not also to similarly situated U.S.
international carriers authorized to serve a particular route.
     (2)  The special concessions certification required by paragraph (i) of this section
and by Sections 63.11(c)(2)(iii) and 63.13(a)(4) shall be viewed as an ongoing representation
to the Commission, and applicants/carriers shall immediately inform the Commission if at any
time the representations in their certifications are no longer true.  Failure to so inform the
Commission will be deemed a material misrepresentation to the Commission.
     (j)  A certification pursuant to Sections 1.2001 through 1.2003 of this chapter that
no party to the application is subject to a denial of Federal benefits pursuant to Section 5301
of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988.  See 21 U.S.C.  853a.
     Note 1:  The word "control" as used in this section is not limited to majority stock
ownership, but includes actual working control in whatever manner exercised.
     Note 2:  The term "facilities-based carrier" as used in this section means one that
holds an ownership, indefeasible-right-of-user, or leasehold interest in bare capacity in an
international facility, regardless of whether the underlying facility is a common or non-
common carrier submarine cable, or an INTELSAT or separate satellite system.
     Note 3:  The assessment of "capital stock" ownership will be made under the
standards developed in Commission case law for determining such ownership.  See, e.g., Fox
Television Stations, Inc., 10 FCC Rcd 8452 (1995).  "Capital stock" includes all forms of
equity ownership, including partnership interests.
     Note 4:   In applying the provisions of this section, ownership and other interests in
U.S. and foreign carriers will be attributed to their holders and deemed cognizable pursuant to
the following criteria:
     (a)   Attribution of ownership interests in a carrier that are held indirectly by any
party through one or more intervening corporations will be determined by successive
multiplication of the ownership percentages for each link in the vertical ownership chain and
application of the relevant attribution benchmark to the resulting product, except that
wherever the ownership percentage for any link in the chain exceeds 50 percent, it shall not
be included for purposes of this multiplication.  For example, if A owns 30 percent of
company X, which owns 60 percent of company Y, which owns 26 percent of "carrier," then
X's interest in "carrier" would be 26 percent (the same as Y's interest because X's interest in
Y exceeds 50 percent), and A's interest in "carrier" would be 7.8 percent (0.30 x 0.26). 
Under the 25 percent attribution benchmark, X's interest in "carrier" would be cognizable,
while A's interest would not be cognizable.

     12.  A new Section 63.19 is added to read as follows: 

 63.19  Special procedures for discontinuances of international services.

     (a)  Any non-dominant international carrier as this term is defined in Section 63.10
that seeks to discontinue, reduce or impair service, including the retiring of international
facilities, dismantling or removing of international trunk lines, shall be subject to the
following procedures in lieu of those specified in Sections 63.61 through 63.601: 
     (1)  The carrier shall notify all affected customers of the planned discontinuance,
reduction or impairment at least 60 days prior to its planned action.  Notice shall be in
writing to each affected customer unless the Commission authorizes in advance, for good
cause shown, another form of notice.  
     (2)  The carrier shall file with this Commission a copy of the notification on or
after the date on which notice has been given to all affected customers. 
     (b)  Any dominant international carrier as this term is defined in Section 63.10 that
seeks to retire international facilities, dismantle or remove international trunk lines, and the
services being provided through these facilities are not being discontinued, reduced or
impaired, shall only be subject to the notification requirements of paragraph (a) of this
section.  If such carrier discontinues, reduces or impairs service to a community or retires
facilities that impair or reduce service to a community, the dominant carrier shall file an
application pursuant to Sections 63.62 and 63.500.

     13.  A new Section 63.20 is added to read as follows:

 63.20  Copies required; fees; and filing periods for international service providers. 

     (a)  Unless otherwise specified the Commission shall be furnished with an original
and five copies of applications filed for international facilities and services under Section 214
of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.  Provided, however, that where applications
involve only the supplementation of existing international facilities, and the issuance of a
certificate is not required, an original and two copies of the application shall be furnished. 
Upon request by the Commission, additional copies of the application shall be furnished. 
Each application shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed in Subpart G of Part 1 of this
chapter.
     (b)  No application accepted for filing and subject to the provisions of Sections
63.02, 63.18, 63.62 or 63.505 shall be granted by the Commission earlier than 28 days
following issuance of public notice by the Commission of the acceptance for filing of such
application or any major amendment unless said public notice specifies another time period,
or the application qualifies for streamlined processing pursuant to Section 63.12.
     (c)  No application accepted for filing and subject to the streamlined processing
provisions of Section 63.12 shall be granted by the Commission earlier than 21 days
following issuance of public notice by the Commission of the acceptance for filing of such
application or any major amendment unless said public notice specifies another time period.
     (d)  Any interested party may file a petition to deny an application within the 21
day or other time period specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section.  The petitioner shall
serve a copy of such petition on the applicant no later than the date of filing thereof with the
Commission.  The petition shall contain specific allegations of fact sufficient to show that the
petitioner is a party in interest and that a grant of the application would be prima facie
inconsistent with the public interest, convenience and necessity.  Such allegations of fact
shall, except for those of which official notice may be taken, be supported by affidavit of a
person or persons with personal knowledge thereof.  The applicant may file an opposition to
any petition to deny within 14 days after the original pleading is filed.  The petitioner may
file a reply to such opposition within seven days after the time for filing oppositions has
expired.  Allegations of facts or denials thereof shall similarly be supported by affidavit. 
These responsive pleadings shall be served on the applicant or petitioner, as appropriate, and
other parties to the proceeding.

     14.  A new Section 63.21 is added to read as follows:

 63.21  Conditions applicable to international Section 214 authorizations. 

International carriers authorized under Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended, must follow the following requirements and prohibitions:  
     (a)  Carriers may not resell private lines for the provision of international switched
services unless the country at the foreign end of the private line is deemed equivalent.  See 
 63.18(e)(3) through (4). 
     (b)  Carriers must file copies of operating agreements entered into with their foreign
correspondents within 30 days of their execution, and shall otherwise comply with the filing
requirements contained in Section 43.51 of this chapter.
     (c)  Carriers must file tariffs pursuant to Section 203 of the Communications Act,
47 U.S.C. 203, and Part 61 of this chapter.
     (d)  Carriers must file annual reports of overseas telecommunications traffic as
required by Section 43.61 of this chapter.
     (e)  Carriers regulated as dominant must provide the Commission with the
following information within 30 days after conveyance of transmission capacity on submarine
cables to other U.S. carriers:
     (1)  The name of the party to whom the capacity was conveyed;
     (2)  The name of the facility in which capacity was conveyed;
     (3)  The amount of capacity that was conveyed; and
     (4)  The price of the capacity conveyed.

     15.  Section 63.52 is amended by revising the section heading to read as follows:

 63.52 Copies required; fees; and filing periods for domestic authorizations.

*****

     16.  Section 63.53 is amended to read as follows:

 63.53 Form.

     (a)  Applications under Section 214 of the Communications Act shall be submitted
on paper not more than 21.6 cm (8.5 in) wide and not more than 35.6 cm (14 in) long with a
left-hand margin of 4 cm (1.5 in).  This requirement shall not apply to original documents, or
admissible copies thereof, offered as exhibits or to specially prepared exhibits.  The
impression shall be on one side of the paper only and shall be double-spaced, except that long
quotations shall be single-spaced and indented.  All papers, except charts and maps, shall be
typewritten or prepared by mechanical processing methods, other than letter press, or printed. 
The foregoing shall not apply to official publications. All copies must be clearly legible.
     (b)  Applications submitted under Section 214 of the Communications Act for
international services may be submitted on computer diskettes pursuant to a filing manual
compiled by the International Bureau, but a paper copy of the application with the original
signature must accompany the diskette.  The manual will specify the type and format of the
computer diskettes and the reporting and procedural requirements for such applications.
     (c)  Applications submitted under Section 214 of the Communications Act for
international services and any related pleadings that are in a foreign language shall be
accompanied by a certified translation in English.    

     17.  Section 63.62 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows:

 63.62 Type of discontinuance, reduction, or impairment of telephone or telegraph
service requiring formal application.

*****
     (a)  The dismantling or removal of a trunk line (for contents of application see       
   63.500) for all domestic carriers and for dominant international carriers except as modified
in Section 63.19; 

*****

     18.  Section 63.71 is amended by revising the section heading to read as follows:

 63.71 Special procedures for discontinuance, reduction or impairment of service by
domestic non-dominant carriers.
*****                                APPENDIX B
                   FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS

     Pursuant to Section 603 of Title 5, United States Code, 5 U.S.C.  603, an initial
Regulatory Flexibility Analysis was incorporated in the Notice of Proposed Rule Making in
IB Docket No. 95-118.  Written comments on the proposals in the Notice, including the
Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, were requested.

A.   NEED AND PURPOSE OF RULES.

     This Report and Order streamlines the international Section 214 authorization process
and tariff requirements in order to greatly lessen the regulatory burdens on applicants,
authorized carriers, and the Commission to enable them to operate more efficiently and
respond better to customers' needs in a timely manner. These rules allow international carriers
to enter and exit the market more quickly with greater flexibility to meet the evolving needs
of the global telecommunications market. 

B.   ISSUES RAISED BY THE PUBLIC IN RESPONSE TO THE INITIAL
     ANALYSIS.

     We received one comment in response to the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis.
The America's Carriers Telecommunications Association (ACTA) completely supported the
initiatives of the Commission in seeking to reduce unnecessary regulation and to streamline
the regulation required to serve the interests of the public.  ACTA raised one area of concern
as the Commission replaces traditional regulatory controls in favor of competition to regulate
the marketplace.  ACTA states that effective enforcement of the remaining regulations, which
is both prompt and effective, is critical to survival of the smaller competitors in the industry. 
ACTA states that present complaint and tariff processes favor the established carriers, as does
commercial arbitration and/or the Alternative Dispute Resolution proceedings of the
Commission.  ACTA states that the Commission should provide small competitors a fair,
unbiased and competent forum to air their grievances and to obtain justice.    

C.   SIGNIFICANT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED.

     We have attempted to balance all the commenters' concerns with our public interest
mandate under the Act in order to adopt a clear and administratively feasible approach to
processing international Section 214 applications and tariffs.  Where we have removed
regulations, we have been careful to consider the implications on small businesses and the
industry in general.  We have considered and addressed all of the alternatives offered.  We
rejected proposals to streamline dominant carrier regulations where we believed such action
would hinder our ability to regulate dominant carriers, and safeguard against market power
abuses.